Table of ContentsCommercial mortgagesAt March&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firm had exposure to $5.9&nbsp;billion of commercial mortgage loans andsecurities carried at fair value through earnings or at the lower of cost or fair value. Loansinclude $3.5&nbsp;billion of first-lien mortgages, predominantly in the U.S., classified in level 3.Of the $2.4&nbsp;billion of securities which are partially rated &#147;AAA,&#148; $483&nbsp;million is classified inlevel 2, and $1.9&nbsp;billion is classified in level 3.The following table presents mortgage-related activities within the available-for-sale securitiesportfolio.Exposures in the table above include $212.0&nbsp;billion of mortgage-backed securities classified asavailable-for-sale on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets at March&nbsp;31, 2009. These investmentsare used as part of the Firm's centralized risk management of structural interest rate risk (i.e.,the sensitivity of the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets to changes in interest rates). Changes inthe Firm's structural interest rate position, as well as changes in the overall interest rateenvironment, are continually monitored, resulting in periodic repositioning of mortgage-backedsecurities classified as available-for-sale. Given that this portfolio is primarily used to managethe Firm's structural interest rate risk, predominantly all of these securities are backed byeither U.S. government agencies, U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, or are rated &#147;AAA.&#148;Investment securities in the available-for-sale portfolio include:98 Table of ContentsCredit adjustmentsWhen determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be necessary to record a valuationadjustment to arrive at an exit price in accordance with SFAS 157. Valuation adjustments include,but are not limited to, amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the Firm's owncreditworthiness. For a detailed discussion of the valuation adjustments the Firm considers, seeNote 4 on pages 129-143 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table provides the credit adjustments, gross of hedges where risk is activelymanaged, as reflected within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Firm as of the dates indicated.The following table provides the impact of credit adjustments, gross of hedges where risk isactively managed, on earnings in the respective periods.The market's view of the Firm's credit quality is reflected in credit spreads observed in thecredit default swap market. These credit spreads are affected by a number of factors, such as theperformance of the assets the Firm holds. Consequently, significant deterioration in the value ofsizable exposures held by the Firm are likely to result in wider credit default swap spreads. Thiswill lead to an increase in the Firm's credit adjustment (i.e., debit valuation adjustments(&#147;DVA&#148;)) for liabilities carried at fair value.NOTE 4 &#151; FAIR VALUE OPTION SFAS 159 provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selectedfinancial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loancommitments not previously carried at fair value. The Firm's fair value elections were intended tomitigate the volatility in earnings that had been created by recording financial instruments andthe related risk management instruments on a different basis of accounting, or to eliminate theoperational complexities of applying hedge accounting.For a discussion of the primary financial instruments for which fair value elections have been madeand the basis for those elections, see Note 5 on pages 144&#151;146 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport.99 Table of ContentsChanges in fair value under the fair value option electionThe following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements ofIncome for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, for items for which the fair valueelection was made. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the financialinstruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments,which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.Determination of instrument-specific credit risk for items for which a fair value election was madeThe following describes how the gains and losses included in earnings during 2009 and 2008, whichwere attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were determined.100 Table of ContentsDifference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balanceoutstandingThe following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregateremaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,for loans and long-term debt for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected. The loanswere classified in trading assets &#151; debt and equity instruments or in loans.101 Table of ContentsNOTE 5 &#151; PRINCIPAL TRANSACTIONS Principal transactions revenue consists of realized and unrealized gains and losses from tradingactivities (including physical commodities inventories that are accounted for at the lower of costor fair value), changes in fair value associated with financial instruments held by the InvestmentBank for which the SFAS 159 fair value option was elected, and loans held-for-sale within thewholesale lines of business. For loans measured at fair value under SFAS 159, origination costs arerecognized in the associated expense category as incurred. Principal transactions revenue alsoincludes private equity gains and losses.The following table presents principal transactions revenue.Trading assets and liabilitiesTrading assets include debt and equity instruments held for trading purposes that JPMorgan Chaseowns (&#147;long&#148; positions), certain loans for which the Firm manages on a fair value basis and haselected the SFAS 159 fair value option, and physical commodities inventories that are accounted forat the lower of cost or fair value. Trading liabilities include debt and equity instruments thatthe Firm has sold to other parties but does not own (&#147;short&#148; positions). The Firm is obligated topurchase instruments at a future date to cover the short positions. Included in trading assets andtrading liabilities are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealizedlosses) related to derivatives. Trading assets and liabilities are carried at fair value on theConsolidated Balance Sheets. For a discussion of the valuation of trading assets and tradingliabilities, see Note 4 on pages 129-143 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents the fair value of trading assets and trading liabilities for the datesindicated.102 Table of ContentsAs noted above, included in trading assets and trading liabilities are the reported receivables(unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized losses) related to derivatives. As permitted under FIN39, the Firm has elected to net derivative receivables and derivative payables and the related cashcollateral received and paid when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. The nettedamount of cash collateral received and paid was $92.1&nbsp;billion and $66.6&nbsp;billion, respectively, atMarch&nbsp;31, 2009, and $103.6&nbsp;billion and $72.4&nbsp;billion, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2008. The Firmreceived and paid excess collateral of $21.6&nbsp;billion and $2.8&nbsp;billion, respectively, at March&nbsp;31,2009, and $22.2&nbsp;billion and $3.7&nbsp;billion, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2008. This additionalcollateral received and paid secures potential exposure that could arise in the derivativesportfolio should the mark-to-market value of the transactions move in the Firm's favor or theclient's favor, respectively, and is not nettable against the amount of derivative receivables orderivative payables in the table above. The above amounts also exclude liquid securities held andposted as collateral by the Firm to secure derivative receivables and derivative payables.Collateral amounts held and posted in securities form are not recorded on the Firm's balance sheet,and are therefore not nettable against derivative receivables or derivative payables. The Firm heldsecurities collateral of $15.5&nbsp;billion and $19.8&nbsp;billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively, related to derivative receivables. The Firm posted $8.1&nbsp;billion and $11.8&nbsp;billion ofsecurities collateral at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, related to derivativepayables. For additional discussion of derivative instruments, seeNote 6 on pages 104-111 of thisForm 10-Q.Average trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated.Private equity investmentsFor a discussion of the accounting for and valuation of private equity investments, see Note 4 onpages 129-143 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. Private equity investments are recorded inother assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table presents the carrying valueand cost of the private equity investment portfolio held by the Private Equity business withinCorporate/Private Equity for the dates indicated.103 Table of ContentsNOTE 6 &#151; DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Derivative instruments enable end-users to transform or mitigate exposure to credit or marketrisks. Counterparties to a derivative contract seek to obtain risks and rewards similar to thosethat could be obtained from purchasing or selling a related cash instrument without having toexchange the full purchase or sales price upfront. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives forcustomers and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage risks of market exposures. The majority ofthe Firm's derivatives are entered into for market-making purposes.Trading DerivativesThe Firm transacts in a variety of derivatives in its trading portfolios to meet the needs ofcustomers (both dealers and clients) and to generate revenue through this trading activity. TheFirm makes markets in derivatives for its customers (collectively, &#147;client derivatives&#148;) seeking tomitigate or transform interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks. The Firmactively manages the risks from its exposure to such derivatives by entering into other derivativetransactions or purchasing or selling other financial instruments that partially or fully offsetthe exposure from client derivatives. The Firm seeks to earn a spread between the clientderivatives and offsetting positions, and from the remaining open risk positions. For moreinformation about trading derivatives, see the trading derivatives gains and losses table on page109 of this Form 10-Q.Risk Management DerivativesThe Firm manages its market exposures using various derivative instruments.Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in earnings that are caused by changes ininterest rates. Fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value asinterest rates change. Similarly, interest income and interest expense increase or decrease as aresult of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current market rates, and as a resultof the repayment and subsequent origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities atcurrent market rates. Gains and losses on the derivative instruments that are related to suchassets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this variability in earnings. The Firmgenerally uses interest rate swaps, forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest ratefluctuations on earnings.Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign exchange risk associated withcertain foreign currency-denominated (i.e., non-U.S.) assets and liabilities and forecastedtransactions denominated in a foreign currency, and the Firm's equity investments in non-U.S.subsidiaries. As a result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar-equivalent valuesof the foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities or forecasted revenue or expenseincrease or decrease. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are related to the foreigncurrency-denominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions, are expected tosubstantially offset this variability.Gold forward contracts are used to manage the price risk of gold inventory in the Firm'scommodities portfolio. Gains or losses on the gold forwards are expected to substantially offsetthe depreciation or appreciation of the gold inventory as a result of gold price changes. Also inthe commodities portfolio, electricity and natural gas futures and forwards contracts are used tomanage the price risk associated with energy-related tolling and load serving contracts andenergy-related investments.The Firm uses credit derivatives to manage the counterparty credit risk associated with loans andlending-related commitments. Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referencedin the contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a failure to pay an obligationwhen due. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see the discussion in the Creditderivatives section on pages 110-111 of this Form 10-Q.For more information about risk management derivatives, see the risk management derivatives gainsand losses table on page 109 of this Form 10-Q.104 Table of ContentsNotional amount of derivative contractsThe following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding as of March31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of the volume of the Firm'sderivative activity, the notional amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm's view, the possiblelosses that could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notionalamount does not change hands; it is used simply as a reference to calculate payments.Accounting for DerivativesAll free-standing derivatives are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets atfair value. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether or not thecontract has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are notdesignated as hedges are marked to market through earnings. The tabular disclosures on pages107-111 of this Form 10-Q provide additional information on the amount of and reporting forderivative assets, liabilities, gains and losses. For further discussion of derivatives embedded instructured notes, see Notes 4 and 5 on pages 129-143 and 144-146, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's2008 Annual Report.Derivatives designated as hedgesThe Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed for risk management purposes,typically interest rate, foreign exchange and gold derivatives, as described above. JPMorgan Chasedoes not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the Firm's risk management activities involvingderivatives. For example, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to purchased credit defaultswaps used to manage the credit risk of loans and commitments, because of the difficulties inqualifying such contracts as hedges. For the same reason, the Firm does not apply hedge accountingto certain interest rate derivatives used for risk management purposes, or to commodity derivativesused to manage the price risk of tolling and load-serving contracts.105 Table of ContentsTo qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effective at reducing the riskassociated with the exposure being hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as ahedge, the risk management objective and strategy must be documented. Hedge documentation mustidentify the derivative hedging instrument, the asset or liability and type of risk to be hedged,and how the effectiveness of the derivative will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively. Toassess effectiveness, the Firm uses statistical methods such as regression analysis, as well asnonstatistical methods including dollar-value comparisons of the change in the fair value of thederivative to the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The extent to which aderivative has been, and is expected to continue to be, effective at offsetting changes in the fairvalue or cash flows of the hedged item must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. Anyhedge ineffectiveness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivativeinstrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedgedrisk) must be reported in current-period earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is nothighly effective at hedging the designated exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued.There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and netinvestment hedges. JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-rate long-termdebt, available-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) securities and gold inventory. For qualifying fair value hedges,the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the value of the hedged item for the riskbeing hedged, are recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the fair value adjustment to the hedgeditem continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item and is amortized to earningsas a yield adjustment.JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows fromfloating-rate financial instruments and forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover ofshort-term assets and liabilities, and foreign currency-denominated revenue and expense. Forqualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of thederivative is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (&#147;OCI&#148;) and recognized in theConsolidated Statements of Income when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. Derivative amountsaffecting earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item &#151; primarilyinterest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue, and compensation expense. The ineffectiveportions of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship isterminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) (&#147;AOCI&#148;) is recognized in earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. Forhedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted transaction is not expected to occuraccording to the original hedge forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI areimmediately recognized in earnings.JPMorgan Chase uses foreign currency hedges to protect the value of the Firm's net investments incertain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. For qualifyingnet investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in the translationadjustments account within AOCI.106 Table of ContentsImpact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance SheetThe following table summarizes information on derivative fair values that are reflected on theFirm's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, by accounting designation (e.g., whetherthe derivatives were designated as hedges or not) and contract type.Free-standing derivatives(a)Impactof derivatives and hedged items on the income statement and on othercomprehensive incomeThe following table summarizes the total pretax impact of JPMorgan Chase's derivative-relatedactivities on the Firm's Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Comprehensive Income for thethree months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, by accounting designation.107 Table of ContentsThe tables that follow reflect more detailed information regarding the derivative-related incomestatement impact by accounting designation for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009.Fair value hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedgeaccounting relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives and therelated hedged items for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009. The Firm includes gains (losses)&nbsp;onthe hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in the ConsolidatedStatements of Income.Cash flow hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedgeaccounting relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives, for the threemonths ended March&nbsp;31, 2009. The Firm includes the gain (loss)&nbsp;on the hedging derivative in thesame line item as the offsetting change in cash flows on the hedged item in the ConsolidatedStatements of Income.Over the next 12&nbsp;months, it is expected that $157&nbsp;million (after-tax) of net losses recorded inAOCI at March&nbsp;31, 2009, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. The maximumlength of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10&nbsp;years, and such transactionsprimarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities. There were no forecasted transactionsthat failed to occur during the first quarter of 2009.108 Table of ContentsNet investment hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in netinvestment hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on suchderivatives for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009.Riskmanagement derivatives gains and losses (not designated as hedginginstruments)The following table presents nontrading derivatives, by contract type, that were not designated inhedge relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives for the threemonths ended March&nbsp;31, 2009. These derivatives are risk management instruments used to mitigate ortransform the risk of market exposures arising from banking activities other than tradingactivities, which are discussed separately below.Trading derivative gains and lossesThe Firm has elected to present derivative gains and losses related to its trading activitiestogether with the cash instruments with which they are risk managed. All amounts are recorded inprincipal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the three months endedMarch&nbsp;31, 2009.Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent featuresIn addition to the specific market risks introduced by each derivative contract type, derivativesexpose JPMorgan Chase to credit risk &#151; the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meettheir payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the collateral, if any, held by theFirm proves to be of insufficient value to cover the payment obligation. The amount of derivativereceivables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is the fair value of the derivativecontracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateralheld by the Firm. These amounts represent the cost to the Firm to replace the contracts at thencurrent market rates should the counterparty default. However, in management's view, theappropriate measure of current credit risk should take into consideration other additional liquidsecurities held as collateral by the Firm, which is disclosed in the table below.109 Table of ContentsWhile derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, derivative payables expose the Firm toliquidity risk, as the derivative contracts typically require the Firm to post cash or securitiescollateral with counterparties as the MTM moves in the counterparties' favor, or upon specifieddowngrades in the Firm's and its subsidiaries' respective creditratings. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, the impact of a single-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorganChase & Co., and its subsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., would have required $1.4&nbsp;billion and $4.9billion, respectively, of additional collateral to be posted by the Firm. Certain derivativecontracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either theFirm or the counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative contracts. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, the impact of asingle-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase &Co., and its subsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., related to contracts with termination triggers would have required the Firm to settle tradeswith a fair value of $0.2&nbsp;million and $7.0&nbsp;billion,respectively. The aggregate fair value of net derivativepayables that contain contingent collateral or termination features triggered upon a downgrade was$39.4&nbsp;billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, for which the Firm has posted collateral of $29.1&nbsp;billion in thenormal course of business.The following table shows the current credit risk of derivative receivables after FIN 39 nettingand collateral received, and current liquidity risk of derivatives payables after FIN 39 nettingand collateral posted, as of March&nbsp;31, 2009.In addition to the collateral amounts reflected in the table above, the Firm receives and deliverscollateral at the initiation of derivative transactions, which is available as security againstpotential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the transactions move in the Firm's orclient's favor, respectively. The Firm and its counterparties also hold collateral related tocontracts that have a non-daily call frequency for collateral to be posted and collateral that theFirm or counterparty has agreed to return, but has not yet settled, as of the reporting date. AtMarch&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firm received collateral of $25.1&nbsp;billion and paid collateral of $7.6&nbsp;billionof such additional collateral. These amounts are not netted against the derivative receivables andpayables in the table above, because at an individual counterparty level, the collateral exceededthe fair value exposure at March&nbsp;31, 2009.Credit derivativesCredit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived from the credit risk associatedwith the debt of a third-party issuer (the reference entity) and which allow one party (theprotection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection seller). Creditderivatives expose the protection purchaser to the creditworthiness of the protection seller, asthe protection seller is required to make payments under the contract when the reference entityexperiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to pay its obligation or arestructuring. The seller of credit protection receives a premium for providing protection but hasthe risk that the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject to a creditevent.The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives market anduses credit derivatives for two primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker in thedealer/client business, the Firm actively risk manages a portfolio of credit derivatives bypurchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet theneeds of customers. As a seller of protection, the Firm's exposure to a given reference entity maybe offset partially, or entirely, with a contract to purchase protection from another counterpartyon the same or similar reference entity. Second, the Firm uses credit derivatives to mitigatecredit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables and traditional commercial creditlending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments) as well as to manage its exposure to residentialand commercial mortgages.For a further discussion of credit derivatives, including a description of the different types usedby the Firm, see Note 32 on pages 202-205 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.110 Table of ContentsThe following table presents a summary of the notional amounts of credit derivatives andcredit-related notes the Firm sold and purchased, as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. Upona credit event, the Firm as seller of protection would typically pay out only a percentage of thefull notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount actually required to be paid on thecontracts takes into account the recovery value of the reference obligation at the time ofsettlement. The Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasingprotection with identical or similar underlying reference entities. As such, other purchasedprotection referenced in the following table includes credit derivatives bought on related, but notidentical, reference positions; these include indices, portfolio coverage and other referencepoints. The Firm does not use notional as the primary measure of risk management for creditderivatives because notional does not take into account the probability of occurrence of a creditevent, recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges.Total credit derivatives and credit-related notesThe following table summarizes the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives andcredit-related notes as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, where JPMorgan Chase is theseller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of thecredit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity onwhich the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of protectionpurchased are comparable to the profile reflected below.Protection sold &#151; credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings/maturity profile111 Table of ContentsNOTE 7 &#151; OTHER NONINTEREST REVENUE For a discussion of the components of and accounting policies for the Firm's other noninterestrevenue, see Note 7 on pages 148-149 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of investment banking fees.The following table presents components of asset management, administration and commissions.NOTE 8 &#151; INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows.112 Table of ContentsNOTE 9 &#151; PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANSFor a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's pension and other postretirement employee benefit (&#147;OPEB&#148;)plans, see Note 9 on pages 149-155 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost reported in theConsolidated Statements of Income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEBplans.The fair value of plan assets for the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and the materialnon-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $8.7&nbsp;billion and $1.9&nbsp;billion, respectively, as ofMarch&nbsp;31, 2009, and $8.1&nbsp;billion and $2.0&nbsp;billion, respectively, as of December&nbsp;31, 2008. See Note21 on page 142 of this Form 10-Q for further information on unrecognized amounts (i.e., net lossand prior service costs/(credit)) reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income for the threemonths ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.On January&nbsp;15, 2009, the Firm made a discretionary cash contribution to its U.S. defined benefitpension plan of $1.3&nbsp;billion, funding the plan to the maximum allowable amount under applicable taxlaw. The 2009 potential contributions for the Firm's U.S. non-qualified defined benefit pensionplans are $39&nbsp;million. The 2009 potential contributions for the Firm's non-U.S. (excluding the mainUnited Kingdom (&#147;U.K.&#148;) plan) defined benefit pension plans are $44&nbsp;million and for OPEB plans are$2&nbsp;million. The amount of potential 2009 contributions to the Firm's main U.K. defined benefit planis not reasonably estimable at this time.EffectiveMay 1, 2009, the Firm amended the employer matching contributionfeature of the 401(k) Savings Plan (the "Plan") to provide that: (i) for employeesearning $50,000 or less, matching contributions will be based ontheir contributions to the Plan, but not to exceed 5 percent oftheir eligible compensation (e.g., base pay) and (ii) for employeesearning more than $50,000 per year, matching contributions will bemade atthe discretion of the Firm's management, depending on theFirm's earnings for the year. Any such matching contributionswill be made on an annual basis, following the end of the calendaryear, to employees who are employed by the Firm at the end of suchyear.NOTE 10 &#151; EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED INCENTIVES For a discussion of the accounting policies and other information relating to employee stock-basedcompensation, see Note 10 on pages 155-157 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-basedincentive plans of $788&nbsp;million and $660&nbsp;million for the quarters ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008,respectively, in its Consolidated Statements of Income. These amounts included an accrual for theestimated cost of stock awards to be granted to full-career eligible employees of $140&nbsp;million and$134&nbsp;million for the quarters ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.In the first quarter of 2009, the Firm granted 130&nbsp;million restricted stock units (&#147;RSUs&#148;), with agrant date fair value of $19.52 per RSU, in connection with its annual incentive grant.113 Table of ContentsNOTE 11 &#151; NONINTEREST EXPENSE Merger costsCosts associated with the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction are reflectedin the merger costs caption of the Consolidated Statements of Income. For a further discussion ofthe Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction, seeNote 2 on pages 86-88 of thisForm 10-Q. A summary of merger-related costs is shown in the following table.The table below shows the change in the merger reserve balance related to the costs associated withthe transactions.NOTE 12 &#151; SECURITIES Securities are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (&#147;HTM&#148;) or trading. For additional informationregarding AFS and HTM securities, see Note 12 on pages 158-162 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport. Trading securities are discussed in Note 5 on pages 102-103of this Form 10-Q.The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities.The following table presents other-than-temporary impairment (&#147;OTTI&#148;) losses that are included inrealized losses above.114 Table of ContentsThe amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the datesindicated.115 Table of ContentsThe following table presents the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by agingcategory at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.116 Table of ContentsIn April&nbsp;2009, the FASB amended the OTTI model for debt securities. The impairment model for equitysecurities was not affected. Under the new guidance, OTTI loss must be recognized in earnings if aninvestor has the intent to sell the debt security or it is more likely than not will be required tosell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.However, even if an investor does not expect to sell a debt security, it must evaluate expected cash flows to bereceived and determine if a credit loss has occurred. In the event of a credit loss, only theamount of impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in income. Amounts relating tofactors other than credit losses are recorded in OCI. The guidance also requires additional disclosures regarding thecalculation of credit losses as well as factors considered in reaching a conclusion that aninvestment is not other-than-temporarily impaired. JPMorgan Chase early adopted the new guidanceeffective for the period ending March&nbsp;31, 2009. The Firm did not record a transition adjustment forsecurities held at March&nbsp;31, 2009, that were previously considered other-than-temporarily impairedas the Firm intends to sell the securities for which the Firm had previously recognized OTTIs.AFS securities in unrealized loss positions are analyzed in-depth as part of the Firm's ongoingassessment of OTTI. When the Firm intends to sell AFS securities, the Firm recognizes an impairmentloss equal to the full difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of thosesecurities.When the Firm does not intend to sell AFS equity or debt securities in an unrealized loss position,potential OTTI is considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent towhich the market value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to theindustry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of asecurity; payment structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a ratingagency; the volatility of the fair value changes, and changes in fair value of the security afterthe balance sheet date. For debt securities, the Firm estimates cash flows over the remaining livesof the underlying collateral to assess whether credit losses exist,and where applicable under EITF Issue 99-20, to determine if anyadverse changes in cash flows have occurred. The Firm's cash flow estimates take intoaccount expectations of relevant market and economic data as of the end of the reporting period,including, for example, for securities issued in a securitization, underlying loan level data andstructural features of the securitization such as subordination, excess spread,overcollateralization or other forms of credit enhancement. The Firm compares the losses projectedfor the underlying collateral (&#147;pool losses&#148;) against the level of117 Table of Contentscredit enhancement in the securitization structure to determine whether these features aresufficient to absorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss on the AFS debt security exists. TheFirm also performs other analyses to support its cash flow projections such as first-loss analysesor stress scenarios. For debt securities, the Firm considers a decline in fair value to beother-than-temporary when the Firm does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis ofthe security, including as applicable under EITF Issue 99-20, when an adverse change in cash flowshas occurred. The Firm applies EITF Issue 99-20 to beneficial interests insecuritizations that are rated below &#147;AA&#148; at acquisition or that can be contractually prepaid orotherwise settled in such a way that the Firm would not recover substantially all of its recordedinvestment. For equity securities, the Firm considers the above factors, as well as the Firm'sintent and ability to retain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for anyanticipated recovery in market value, and whether evidence exists to support a realizable valueequal to or greater than the carrying value. The Firm considers a decline in fair value of AFSequity securities to be other-than-temporary if it is probable that the Firm will not recover itsamortized cost basis.Over the past 12&nbsp;months, the Firm has increased its investment securities positions. Many of thesesecurities were purchased at discounts to par given the significant liquidity constraints in themarket. The timing and prices at which the Firm acquired its investments has resulted in themajority of unrealized losses existing for less than 12&nbsp;months. Based on the analyses describedabove, which have been applied to these securities, the Firm believes that the unrealized lossesresult from liquidity conditions in the current market environment. As of March&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firmdoes not intend to sell the securities with an unrealized loss position in AOCI and it is notlikely that the Firm will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortizedcost basis, and as a result, the Firm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss in AOCIare not other-than-temporarily impaired as of March&nbsp;31, 2009.Followingis a description of the Firm's main security investments andthe key assumptions used in the Firm's estimate of the presentvalue of the cash flows most likely to be collected from thoseinvestments.U.S.government and federal agency and U.S. government-sponsoredenterprise obligationsAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses on mortgage-backed securities related to U.S.government-sponsored enterprise obligations and U.S. government and federal agency obligations were$256&nbsp;million, of which $17&nbsp;million related to securities that have been in an unrealized lossposition for longer than 12&nbsp;months. These mortgage-backed securities do not have any credit lossesgiven the explicit and implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. federal government.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; Prime and Alt-A non-agencyAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to prime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securitiesissued by private issuers were $2.2&nbsp;billion of which $1.5&nbsp;billion related to securities that havebeen in an unrealized loss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. The majority of these securities arecurrently rated &#147;AAA.&#148; Approximately 42% of the amortized cost of the investments in prime andAlt-A mortgage-backed securities have experienced downgrades and approximately 26% are currentlyrated below investment grade. Despite the downgrades experienced, the portfolio continues topossess credit enhancement levels sufficient to support the Firm's investment. In analyzing primeand Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities for potential credit losses, the key inputs to theFirm's cash flow projections were estimated peak-to-trough home price declines of up to 40% and ananticipated unemployment rate of 8.8%. The Firm's cash flow projections assumed liquidation ratesof 75-100% and loss severities of 35-45%, depending on the underlying collateral type andseasoning.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; SubprimeAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to subprime residential mortgage-backedsecurities were $21&nbsp;million, all of which related to securities that have been in an unrealizedloss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. The unrealized losses related to the Firm's holdings ofcertain senior tranches of subprime residential mortgage-backed securities (&#147;RMBS&#148;) issued in 2006that had high levels of credit enhancement relative to their collateral risk, and/or near-termexpected principal payments. In addition, the Firm recorded OTTI losses of $5&nbsp;million during thequarter ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, on subprime RMBS that the Firm intends to sell. These securities hadexpected credit losses due to lower levels of credit enhancement and expected principal payments.As of March&nbsp;31, 2009, the subprime RMBS cash flow projection assumptions over the next five yearsincluded peak-to-trough home price depreciation of up to 40%, average annual mortgage default ratesof approximately 17-40%, and average loan loss severities of approximately 60-75%. Levels ofsecurity subordination as a percentage of the remaining pool balances varied across the portfolio,ranging from 13% to 49%.118 Table of ContentsMortgage-backed securities &#151; CommercialAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to commercial mortgage-backed securities were$900&nbsp;million; none of the losses related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position forlonger than 12&nbsp;months. Substantially all of the Firm's commercial mortgage-backed securities arerated &#147;AAA&#148; and possess, on average, 29% subordination (a form of credit enhancement for thebenefit of senior securities expressed here as the percentage of pool losses that can occur beforean asset-backed security will incur its first dollar of principal loss). In considering whetherpotential credit-related losses exist, the Firm conducted a scenario analysis using high levels ofdelinquencies and losses over the near term followed by lower levels over the long term. Specificassumptions included: (i)&nbsp;all loans more than 60&nbsp;days delinquent will default; (ii)&nbsp;additionaldefault rates for the remaining portfolio forecasted to be 6% in the near term and 2% in the longterm; and (iii)&nbsp;the loss severity assumptions ranged from 40% in the near term to 35% in lateryears.Asset-backed securities &#151; Credit card receivablesAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to credit card receivables asset-backedsecurities were $1.5&nbsp;billion, of which $335&nbsp;million of the losses related to securities that werein an unrealized loss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. Of the $1.5&nbsp;billion of unrealized lossesrelated to credit card-related asset-backed securities, $1.3&nbsp;billion relates to purchased creditcard-related asset-backed securities, and $197&nbsp;million related to retained interests in the Firm'sown credit card receivable securitizations. The credit card-related asset-backed securities include&#147;AAA,&#148; &#147;A&#148; and &#147;BBB&#148; ratings. One of the key metrics the Firm reviews for credit card-relatedasset-backed securities is each trust's excess spread &#151; which is the credit enhancement resultingfrom cash that remains each month after payments are made to investors for principal and interest,and to servicers for servicing fees, and after credit losses are allocated. The average excessspread for the issuing trusts in which the Firm holds interests ranges from 4% to 7%. The Firm usesinternal models to project the cash flows that impact excess spread. For retained interests, theFirm uses the Firm's own underlying loan data. For purchased investments, the Firm uses availablemarket benchmarks and trends to support the assumptions used in the projections. In analyzingpotential credit losses, the primary assumptions are underlying charge-off rates, which range from8% to 15% (charge-off rates consider underlying assumptions such as unemployment rates and rollrates), payment rates of 11% to 21%, and portfolio yields of 14% to 24%.Asset-backed securities &#151; Commercial and industrial loanAs of March&nbsp;31, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to commercial and industrial loanasset-backed securities were $868&nbsp;million, of which $221&nbsp;million related to securities that were inan unrealized loss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. Substantially all of these securities arerated AAA and have an average of 29% credit enhancement. Credit enhancement in CLOs is mainlycomposed of overcollateralization &#151; the excess of the par amount of collateral over the par amountof securities. The key assumptions considered in analyzing potential credit losses were underlyingloan and debt security defaults and loss severity. Based on current default trends, the Firmassumed collateral default rates of 15% in 2009, 12% in 2010 and 5% thereafter. Further, lossseverities were assumed to be 50% for loans and 80% for debt securities. Losses were estimated tooccur approximately 18&nbsp;months after default.The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at March&nbsp;31, 2009, ofJPMorgan Chase's AFS and HTM securities by contractual maturity.119 Table of ContentsNOTE 13 &#151; SECURITIES FINANCING ACTIVITIES For a discussion of accounting policies relating to securities financing activities, see Note 13 onpages 162-163 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. For further information regarding securitiesborrowed and securities lending agreements for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has beenelected, see Note 4 on pages 100-102 of this Form 10-Q.The following table details the components of collateralized financings.JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to collateralize repurchase agreementsand other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the securedparty are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on theConsolidated Balance Sheets.At March&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firm received securities as collateral that could be repledged, delivered orotherwise used with a fair value of approximately $496.9&nbsp;billion. This collateral was generallyobtained under resale or securities borrowing agreements. Of these securities, approximately $457.1billion were repledged, delivered or otherwise used, generally as collateral under repurchaseagreements, securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.NOTE 14 &#151; LOANS The accounting for a loan is based on whether it is originated or purchased, and whether the loanis used in an investing or trading strategy. The measurement framework for loans in theConsolidated Financial Statements is one of the following:For a detailed discussion of accounting policies relating to loans, see Note 14 on pages 163-166 ofJPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. See Note 4 on pages 99-101 of this Form 10-Q for furtherinformation on the Firm's elections of fair value accounting under SFAS 159. See Note 5 on pages102-103 of this Form 10-Q for further information on loans carried at fair value and classified astrading assets.120 Table of ContentsThe composition of the Firm's aggregate loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was asfollows.The following table reflects information about the Firm's loan sales.121 Table of ContentsPurchased credit-impaired loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain loans that itdeemed to be credit-impaired under SOP 03-3. For a detailed discussion of purchased credit-impairedloans including accounting policies, see Note 14 on pages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport.Purchased credit-impaired loans are reported in loans on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets.The allowance for loan losses, if required, would be reported as a reduction of the carrying amountof the loans. No allowance for loan losses has been recorded for these loans as of March&nbsp;31, 2009.The outstanding balance and the carrying value of the purchased credit-impaired consumer loans wereas follows:The accretable yield represents the excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the fairvalue of the purchased credit-impaired loans. This amount is not reported on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets, but is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return overthe term of the underlying loans. For variable rate loans, expected future cash flows wereinitially based on the rate in effect at acquisition; expected future cash flows are recalculatedas rates change over the lives of the loans.The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for purchased credit-impaired consumerloans for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009.Impaired loansFor a detailed discussion of impaired loans, including types of impaired loans, certain troubleddebt restructurings and accounting policies relating to the interest income on these loans, seeNote 14 on pages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The tables below set forth information about JPMorgan Chase's impaired loans, excluding creditcard loans which are discussed below. The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method forvaluing impaired loans.122 Table of ContentsIncluded in the table above are consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, that have beenmodified in a troubled debt restructuring, with balances of approximately $2.6&nbsp;billion and $1.8billion as of March&nbsp;31, 2009 and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.During the first quarter of 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the &#147;U.S. Treasury&#148;)introduced the Making Home Affordable (&#147;MHA&#148;) Plan, which includes programs designed to assisteligible homeowners in refinancing or modifying their mortgages. The Firm is participating in theMHA programs, while continuing to expand its other loss mitigation efforts for financially stressedborrowers who do not qualify for the MHA programs. A substantial portion of the modifications underthe MHA programs are expected to be accounted for as troubled debt restructurings.For detailed discussion of modification of the terms of credit card loan agreements, see Note 14 onpages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,the Firm modified $3.0&nbsp;billion and $2.4&nbsp;billion, respectively, of on&#151;balance sheet credit cardloans outstanding.NOTE 15 &#151; ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES For further discussion of the allowance for credit losses and the related accounting policies, seeNote 15 on pages 166-168 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for loan losses.123 Table of ContentsThe table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for lending-related commitments.NOTE 16 &#151; LOAN SECURITIZATIONS For a discussion of the accounting policies relating to loan securitizations, see Note 16 on pages168&#151;176 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety ofloans, including residential mortgage, credit card, automobile, student, and commercial (primarilyrelated to real estate) loans. JPMorgan Chase&#151;sponsored securitizations use SPEs as part of thesecuritization process. These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a qualifyingspecial-purpose entity (&#147;QSPE&#148;) (for a further discussion, see Note 1 on page 122 of JPMorganChase's 2008 Annual Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-relatedQSPEs are not reflected on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for retained interests,as described below). The primary purposes of these securitization vehicles are to meet investorneeds and to generate liquidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEsare financed through the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate asset-backed securities.The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in JPMorganChase&#151;sponsored securitization entities, for which sale accounting was achieved and to which theFirm has continuing involvement, at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. Continuing involvementincludes servicing the loans, holding senior or subordinated interests, recourse or guaranteearrangements and derivative transactions. In certain instances, the Firm's only continuinginvolvement is servicing the loans.124 Table of ContentsSecuritization activity by major product typeThe following discussion describes the nature of the Firm's securitization activities by majorproduct type.Credit card securitizationsThe Card Services (&#147;CS&#148;) business securitizes originated and purchased credit card loans. TheFirm's primary continuing involvement includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undividedseller's interest in the receivables, retaining certain senior and subordinated securities and themaintenance of escrow accounts. For further discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 16on pages 169-170 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.CS maintains servicing responsibilities for all credit card securitizations that it sponsors. Asservicer and transferor, the Firm receives contractual servicing fees based on the securitized loanbalance plus excess servicing fees, which are recorded in credit card income as discussed in Note 7on page 112 of this Form 10-Q.The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimumundivided interest in the trusts (which generally ranges from 4% to 12%). At March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firm had $19.1&nbsp;billion and $33.3&nbsp;billion, respectively, related to itsundivided interests in the trusts. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principalreceivables in the trusts of approximately 21% for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, and 22%for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008. These undivided interests in the trusts represent the Firm'sinterests in the receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securitized; theseundivided interests are not represented by security certificates, are carried at historical costand classified within loans.Additionally, the Firm retained subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees on thesecuritized receivables totaling $3.2&nbsp;billion and $3.0&nbsp;billion (net of an allowance foruncollectible amounts) as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, which areclassified in other assets.CS retained subordinated securities in its credit card securitization trusts totaling $2.5billion and $2.3&nbsp;billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, and seniorsecurities totaling $7.1&nbsp;billion and $3.5&nbsp;billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively. Of the securities retained, $9.6&nbsp;billion and $5.4&nbsp;billion were classified as AFSsecurities at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. The senior AFS securities wereused by the Firm as collateral for a secured financing transaction. The retained subordinatedinterests that were acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and classified as trading assetshad a carrying value of zero and $389&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively.The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some credit cardsecuritizations to cover deficiencies in cash flows owed to investors. The amounts available insuch escrow accounts related to credit cards are recorded in other assets and amounted to $51million and $74&nbsp;million as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.125 Table of ContentsMortgage securitizationsThe Firm securitizes originated and purchased residential mortgages and originated commercialmortgages.RFS securitizes residential mortgage loans that it originates andpurchases, and it typically retains servicing for all of its originated and purchased residentialmortgage loans. Additionally, RFS may retain servicing for certain mortgage loans purchased by IB.As servicer, the Firm receives servicing fees based on the securitized loan balance plus ancillaryfees. The Firm also retains the right to service the residential mortgage loans it sells toGovernment National Mortgage Association (&#147;GNMA&#148;), Federal National Mortgage Association (&#147;FNMA&#148;)and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#147;FHLMC&#148;) in accordance with their servicing guidelinesand standards. For a discussion of MSRs, see Note 18 on pages 137-138 of this Form 10-Q. In alimited number of securitizations, RFS may retain an interest in addition to servicing rights. Theamount of interest retained related to these securitizations totaled$613&nbsp;million and $939&nbsp;millionat March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. These retained interests are accounted foras trading or AFS securities; the classification depends on whether the retained interest isrepresented by a security certificate, has and embedded derivative and when it was retained (i.e.,prior to the adoption of SFAS 155).IB securitizes residential mortgage loans (including those that it purchased and certain mortgageloans originated by RFS) and commercial mortgage loans that it originated. These loans are oftenserviced by RFS. Upon securitization, IB may engage in underwriting and trading activities of thesecurities issued by the securitization trust. IB may retain unsold senior and/or subordinatedinterests (including residual interests) in both residential and commercial mortgagesecuritizations at the time of securitization. These retained interests are accounted for at fairvalue and classified as trading assets. The amount of residual interests retained was $83&nbsp;millionand $155&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. Additionally, IB retained$2.4&nbsp;billion and $2.8&nbsp;billion of senior and subordinated interests as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively; these securities were retained at securitization in connectionwith the Firm's underwriting activity.In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity tables below, the Firm soldresidential mortgage loans totaling $38.2&nbsp;billion and $29.7&nbsp;billion during the first three monthsof 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of these loan sales were for securitization by theGNMA, FNMA and FHLMC. These sales resulted in pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;of $17&nbsp;million and $(10)million during the first three months of 2009 and 2008, respectively.The Firm's mortgage loan sales are primarily nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the riskof future credit losses to the purchaser of the loans. However, for a limited number of loan sales,the Firm is obligated to share up to 100% of the credit risk associated with the sold loans withthe purchaser. See Note 23 on page 144 of this Form 10-Q for additional information on loans soldwith recourse.Other securitizationsThe Firm also securitizes automobile and student loans originated by RFS and purchased consumerloans (including automobile and student loans). The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for alloriginated and certain purchased student and automobile loans. It may also hold a retained interestin these securitizations; such residual interests are classified as other assets. At March&nbsp;31,2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firm held $22&nbsp;million and $37&nbsp;million, respectively, of retainedinterests in securitized automobile loan securitizations, and $49&nbsp;million and $52&nbsp;million,respectively, of residual interests in securitized student loans.The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some automobile and studentloan securitizations to cover deficiencies in cash flows owed to investors. These escrow accountsare classified within other assets and carried at fair value. The amounts available in such escrowaccounts as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, were zero and $3&nbsp;million for automobile and student loansecuritizations, respectively; as of December&nbsp;31, 2008, these amounts were $3&nbsp;million for bothautomobile and student loan securitizations.126 Table of ContentsSecuritization activityThe following tables provide information related to the Firm's securitization activities for thethree months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, and 2008. For the periods presented, there were no cash flowsfrom the Firm to the QSPEs related to recourse or guarantee arrangements.127 Table of ContentsJPMorgan Chase's interest in securitized assets held at fair valueThe following table summarizes the Firm's securitization interests, which are carried at fair valueon the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes available. As of March&nbsp;31,2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, 66% and 55%, respectively, of the Firm's retained securitizationinterests, which are carried at fair value, were risk rated &#147;A&#148; or better.The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31,2008, to determine the fair value of the Firm's retained interests, other than MSRs, that arevalued using modeling techniques. The table below also outlines the sensitivities of those fairvalues to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in assumptions used to determine fair value. For adiscussion of residential MSRs, see Note 18 on pages 137-138 of this Form 10-Q.128 Table of ContentsThe sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value based on a10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated easily, because therelationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also,in the table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value iscalculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result inchanges in another, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities. The above sensitivitiesalso do not reflect the Firm's risk management practices that may be undertaken to mitigate suchrisks.129 Table of ContentsThe table below includes information about delinquencies, net charge-offs/(recoveries) andcomponents of reported and securitized financial assets at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31,2008.130 Table of ContentsNOTE 17 &#151; VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES Refer toNote 1 on page 122 and Note 17 on pages 177-186 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Reportfor a further description of JPMorgan Chase's policies regarding consolidation of variable interestentities (&#147;VIEs&#148;) and the Firm's principal involvement with VIEs.Multi-seller conduitsThe following table summarizes the Firm's involvement with nonconsolidated Firm-administeredmulti-seller conduits. There were no consolidated Firm-administered multi-seller conduits as ofMarch&nbsp;31, 2009, or December&nbsp;31, 2008.Assets funded by multi-seller conduitsThe following table presents information on the commitments and assets held by JPMorgan Chase'sadministered multi-seller conduits as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.131 Table of ContentsThe assets held by the multi-seller conduits are structured so that if they were rated, the Firmbelieves the majority of them would receive an &#147;A&#148; rating or better by external rating agencies.However, it is unusual for the assets held by the conduits to be explicitly rated by an externalrating agency. Instead, the Firm's Credit Risk group assigns each asset purchase liquidity facilityan internal risk-rating based on its assessment of the probability of default for the transaction.The ratings provided in the above table reflect the S&P-equivalent ratings of the internal ratinggrades assigned by the Firm.The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes available. As of March&nbsp;31,2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, 91% and 90%, respectively, of the assets in the conduits wererisk-rated &#147;A&#148; or better.Commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduitsThe weighted-average life of commercial paper issued by multi-seller conduits at March&nbsp;31, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was 24&nbsp;days and 27&nbsp;days, respectively, and the average yield on thecommercial paper at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,was 0.4% and 0.6%, respectively. In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades and invests in commercial paper, includingpaper issued by the Firm-administered conduits. The percentage of commercial paper purchased by theFirm from all Firm-administered conduits during the quarter ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, ranged from lessthan 1% to approximately 3% on any given day. The largest daily amount of commercial paperoutstanding held by the Firm in any one multi-seller conduit during the quarter ended March&nbsp;31,2009, was approximately $393&nbsp;million, or 4%, of the conduit's commercial paper outstanding.The Firm is not obligated under any agreement (contractual or noncontractual) to purchase thecommercial paper issued by JPMorgan Chase-administered conduits.132 Table of ContentsConsolidation analysisThe multi-seller conduits administered by the Firm were not consolidated at either March&nbsp;31, 2009,or December&nbsp;31, 2008, as each conduit had issued expected loss notes (&#147;ELNs&#148;), the holders of whichare committed to absorbing the majority of the expected loss of each respective conduit. The totalamounts of ELNs outstanding at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, were $139&nbsp;million and $136million, respectively.Consolidated sensitivity analysis on capitalThe table below shows the impact on the Firm's reported assets, liabilities, Tier 1 capital ratioand Tier 1 leverage ratio if the Firm were required to consolidate all of the multi-seller conduitsthat it administers at their current carrying value.The Firm could fund purchases of assets from Firm-administered multi-seller conduits should itbecome necessary.Investor intermediationMunicipal bond vehiclesExposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, includingthe ratings profile of the VIEs' assets, were as follows.133 Table of ContentsIn the first quarter of 2009, the Firm did not experience a drawdown on its liquidity facilities.In addition, the municipal bond vehicles did not experience any bankruptcy or downgrade terminationevents during the first quarter of 2009.As remarketing agent, the Firm may hold the putable floating-rate certificates. At March&nbsp;31, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, the Firm held $206&nbsp;million and $293&nbsp;million of thesecertificates on its Consolidated Balance Sheets. The largest amount held by the Firm at any timeduring the first quarter of 2009 was $206&nbsp;million, or 1.3%, of the municipal bond vehicles'outstanding putable floating-rate certificates. The Firm did not have and continues not to have anyintent to protect any residual interest holder from potential losses on any of the municipal bondholdings.At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, 98% and 97%, respectively, of the municipal bonds held byvehicles to which the Firm served as liquidity provider were rated &#147;AA-&#148; or better, based uponeither the rating of the underlying municipal bond itself, or the rating including any creditenhancement. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, $2.4&nbsp;billion and $2.6&nbsp;billion, respectively,of the bonds were insured by monoline bond insurers.Credit-linked note vehiclesExposure to nonconsolidated credit-linked note VIEs at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, wasas follows.Asset swap vehiclesExposure to nonconsolidated asset swap VIEs at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was asfollows.Collateralized debt obligation vehiclesFor further information on the Firm's involvement with collateralized debt obligations (&#147;CDOs&#148;),see Note 17 on pages 184-185 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.As of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firm had noninvestment-grade funded loans of $373million and $405&nbsp;million, respectively, to nonconsolidated CDO warehouse VIEs. These funded loansare considered to be assets of the VIEs. Additionally, the Firm had unfunded commitments of $159million and $746&nbsp;million as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. These unfundedcommitments are typically contingent upon certain asset-quality134 Table of Contentsconditions being met by the asset managers. The Firm's maximum exposure to loss related to thenonconsolidated CDO warehouse VIEs was $531&nbsp;million and $1.1&nbsp;billion as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.Once the CDO vehicle closes and issues securities, the Firm has no obligation to provide furthersupport to the vehicle. At the time of closing, the Firm may hold unsold securities that the Firmwas not able to place with third-party investors. In addition, the Firm may on occasion hold some ofthe CDO vehicles' securities as a secondary market-maker or as a principal investor, or it may be aderivative counterparty to the vehicles. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, these amountswere not significant.VIEs sponsored by third partiesInvestment in a third-party credit card securitization trustThe Firm holds a note in a third-party-sponsored VIE, which is a credit card securitization trustthat owns credit card receivables issued by a national retailer. The note is structured so that theprincipal amount can float up to 47% of the principal amount of the receivables held by the Trust,not to exceed $4.2&nbsp;billion. The Firm is not the primary beneficiary of the Trust and accounts forits investment at fair value within AFS investment securities. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, the amortizedcost of the note was $3.6&nbsp;billion, and the fair value was $3.0&nbsp;billion. For more information on AFSsecurities, see Note 12 on pages 114-119 of this Form 10-Q.VIE used in FRBNY transactionIn conjunction with the Bear Stearns merger, in June&nbsp;2008, the FRBNY took control, through an LLCformed for this purpose, of a portfolio of $30.0&nbsp;billion in assets, based on the value of theportfolio as of March&nbsp;14, 2008. The assets of the LLC were funded by a $28.85&nbsp;billion term loanfrom the FRBNY, and a $1.15&nbsp;billion subordinated loan from JPMorgan Chase. The JPMorgan Chase loanis subordinated to the FRBNY loan and will bear the first $1.15&nbsp;billion of any losses of theportfolio. Any remaining assets in the portfolio after repayment of the FRBNY loan, the JPMorganChase loan and the expense of the LLC, will be for the account of theFRBNY. The extent to which the FRBNY and JPMorgan Chase loans will berepaid will depend upon the value of the asset portfolio and theliquidation strategy directed by the FRBNY.Other VIEs sponsored by third partiesThe Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other parties. These transactionsinclude, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor,underwriter, placement agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm'slength, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of the specific VIE, taking intoconsideration the quality of the underlying assets. Where these activities do not cause JPMorganChase to absorb a majority of the expected losses, or to receive a majority of the residualreturns, the Firm records and reports these positions on its Consolidated Balance Sheets similarlyto the way it would record and report positions from any other third-party transaction. Thesetransactions are not considered significant for disclosure purposes under FIN 46(R).Consolidated VIE assets and liabilitiesThe following table presents information on assets, liabilities and commitments related to VIEsthat are consolidated by the Firm.135 Table of Contents136 Table of ContentsNOTE 18 &#151; GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS For a discussion of accounting policies related to goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note18 on pages 186&#151;189 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Goodwill and other intangible assets consist of the following.GoodwillThe $174&nbsp;million increase in goodwill from 2008 was largely due to purchase accounting adjustmentsrelated to the Bear Stearns merger as well as an acquisition of a commodities business by IB. Foradditional information related to the Bear Stearns merger, see Note 2on pages 86-88 of this Form10-Q.Goodwill was not impaired at March&nbsp;31, 2009, or December&nbsp;31, 2008, nor was any goodwill written offdue to impairment during either of the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 or 2008.Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows.Mortgage servicing rightsFor a further description of the MSR asset, interest rate risk management, and the valuationmethodology of MSRs, see Notes 4 and 18 on pages 132 and 186-189 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport, respectively.The fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates, including their effect onprepayment speeds. JPMorgan Chase uses or has used combinations of derivatives and tradinginstruments to manage changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any changes in thefair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instruments. MSRsdecrease in value when interest rates decline. Conversely, securities (such as mortgage-backedsecurities), principal-only certificates and certain derivatives (when the Firm receives fixed-rateinterest payments) increase in value when interest rates decline.137 Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes MSR activity for the three months ended March&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of theFirm's MSRs at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008; and it outlines the sensitivities of thosefair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions.The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be used with caution.Changes in fair value based on a 10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easilyextrapolated, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair valuemay not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption mayhave on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes inone factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.Purchased credit card relationships and all other intangible assetsFor the quarter ended March&nbsp;31, 2009, purchased credit card relationships, other creditcard&#151;related intangibles, core deposit intangibles and other intangibles decreased by $232million, primarily reflecting amortization expense associated with credit card-related intangibles,core deposit intangibles, and other intangibles.Except for $517&nbsp;million of indefinite-lived intangibles related to asset management advisorycontracts, which are not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually, the remainderof the Firm's other acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.138 Table of ContentsThe components of credit card relationships, core deposits and other intangible assets were asfollows.Amortization expenseThe following table presents amortization expense related to credit card relationships, coredeposits and all other intangible assets.Future amortization expenseThe following table presents estimated future amortization expense related to credit cardrelationships, core deposits and all other intangible assets.NOTE 19 &#151; DEPOSITS For further discussion of deposits, see Note 20 on page 190 in JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits were asfollows.139 Table of ContentsNOTE 20 &#151; EARNINGS PER SHAREFor a discussion of the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (&#147;EPS&#148;), see Note 26 onpage 195 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2009, the Firm implemented FSP EITF 03-6-1, which clarifies that unvestedstock-based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividendequivalents (collectively, &#147;dividends&#148;) are participating securities and should be included in theEPS calculation using the two-class method. JPMorgan Chase grants restricted stock and RSUs tocertain employees under its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle the recipients toreceive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividendspaid to holders of common stock. These unvested awards meet the FSP's definition of participatingsecurities. Under the two class method, all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocatedto each class of common stock and participating securities, based on their respective rights toreceive dividends. EPS data for the prior period were revised as required by the FSP.The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the three months endedMarch&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.140 Table of ContentsNOTE 21 &#151; ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)&nbsp;includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains andlosses on AFS securities, SFAS 52 foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact ofrelated derivatives), SFAS 133 cash flow hedging activities and SFAS 158 net loss and prior servicecost (credit)&nbsp;related to the Firm's defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.NOTE 22 &#151; COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES For a discussion of the Firm's commitments and contingencies, see Note 31 on page 201 of JPMorganChase's 2008 Annual Report.Litigation reserveThe Firm maintains litigation reserves for certain of its outstanding litigation. In accordancewith the provisions of SFAS 5, JPMorgan Chase accrues for a litigation-related liability when it isprobable that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonablyestimated. When the Firm is named a defendant in a litigation and may be subject to joint andseveral liability and a judgment sharing agreement is in place, the Firm recognizes expense andobligations net of amounts expected to be paid by other signatories to the judgment sharingagreement.While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, management believes, in light of allinformation known to it at March&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firm's litigation reserves were adequate at suchdate. Management reviews litigation reserves at least quarterly, and the reserves may be increasedor decreased in the future to reflect further relevant developments. The Firm believes it hasmeritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding litigation and,with respect to such litigation, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating orsettling cases according to management's judgment as to what is in the best interests ofstockholders.141 Table of ContentsNOTE 23 &#151; OFF-BALANCE SHEET LENDING-RELATED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND GUARANTEES JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments and guarantees,to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instrumentsrepresents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on thesecommitments or the Firm fulfills its obligation under these guarantees, and the counterpartiessubsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts. For a discussion ofoff-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees, and the Firm's relatedaccounting policies, see Note 33 on pages 206-210 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts, an allowance for creditlosses on lending-related commitments is maintained. See Note 15 onpages 123-124 of this Form 10-Qfor further discussion regarding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of off-balance sheet lending-relatedfinancial instruments and guarantees and the related allowance for credit losses on lending-relatedcommitments at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees142 Table of ContentsOther unfunded commitments to extend creditOther unfunded commitments to extend credit include commitments to U.S. domestic states andmunicipalities, hospitals and other not-for-profit entities to provide funding for periodic tendersof their variable-rate demand bond obligations or commercial paper. Performance by the Firm isrequired in the event that the variable-rate demand bonds or commercial paper cannot be remarketedto new investors. The amount of commitments related to variable-rate demand bonds and commercialpaper of U.S. domestic states and municipalities, hospitals and not-for-profit entities at March31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was $23.5&nbsp;billion for both periods. Similar commitments exist toextend credit in the form of liquidity facility agreements with nonconsolidated municipal bondVIEs. For further information, see Note 17 on pages 131-136 of this Form 10-Q.Also included in other unfunded commitments to extend credit are commitments to investment- andnoninvestment-grade counterparties in connection with leveraged acquisitions. These commitments aredependent on whether the acquisition by the borrower is successful, tend to be short-term in natureand, in most cases, are subject to certain conditions based on the borrower's financial conditionor other factors. The amount of commitments related to leveraged acquisitions at March&nbsp;31, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was $3.2&nbsp;billion and $3.6&nbsp;billion, respectively. For further information,see Note 3 and Note 4 on pages 89-99 and 99-101, respectively, of this Form 10-Q.FIN 45 guaranteesThe Firm considers the following off-balance sheet lending-related arrangements to be guaranteesunder FIN 45: certain asset purchase agreements, standby letters of credit and financialguarantees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification agreements included withinthird-party contractual arrangements and certain derivative contracts. For a further discussion ofthe off-balance sheet lending-related arrangements the Firm considers to be guarantees under FIN45, and the related accounting policies, see Note 33 on pages 206-210 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008Annual Report. The amount of the liability related to FIN 45 guarantees recorded at March&nbsp;31, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments andderivative contracts discussed below was $516&nbsp;million and $535&nbsp;million, respectively.Asset purchase agreementsThe majority of the Firm's unfunded commitments are not guarantees as defined in FIN 45, except forcertain asset purchase agreements that are principally used as a mechanism to provide liquidity toSPEs, predominantly multi-seller conduits, as described in Note 17 onpages 131-136 of this Form10-Q.The carrying value of asset purchase agreements of $145&nbsp;million and $147&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, which is classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on theConsolidated Balance Sheets, includes $6&nbsp;million and $9&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31,2008, respectively, for the allowance for lending-related commitments, and $139&nbsp;million and $138million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively, for the fair value of the FIN 45 guarantee liability.Standby letters of creditStandby letters of credit (&#147;SBLC&#148;) and financial guarantees are conditional lending commitmentsissued by the Firm to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party under certainarrangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition financings, tradeand similar transactions. The carrying value of standby and other letters of credit of $679&nbsp;millionand $673&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, which is classified inaccounts payable and other liabilities in the Consolidated BalanceSheets, includes $302&nbsp;million and $276&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, for theallowance for lending-related commitments, and $377&nbsp;million and $397&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively, for the fair value of the FIN 45 guarantee.The following table summarizes the type of facilities under which standby letters of credit andother letters of credit arrangements are outstanding by the ratings profiles of the Firm'scustomers as of March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. The ratings scale is representative of thepayment or performance risk to the Firm's internal risk ratings, which generally correspond toratings defined by S&P and Moody's.143 Table of ContentsStandby letters of credit and other financial guarantees and other letters of creditDerivatives qualifying as guaranteesIn addition to the contracts described above, the Firm transacts certain derivative contracts thatmeet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45. The total notional value of the derivativesthat the Firm deems to be guarantees was $85.6&nbsp;billion and $83.8&nbsp;billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. The notional value generally represents the Firm's maximumexposure to derivatives qualifying as guarantees, although exposure to certain stable valuederivatives is contractually limited to a substantially lower percentage of the notional value. Thefair value of the contracts reflects the probability of whether the Firm will be required toperform under the contract. The fair value related to derivative guarantees was a derivativereceivable of $204&nbsp;million and $184&nbsp;million, and a derivative payable of $5.5&nbsp;billion and $5.6billion at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. The Firm reduces exposures to thesecontracts by entering into offsetting transactions, or by entering into contracts that hedge themarket risk related to the derivative guarantees.In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45, theFirm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives market. For afurther discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 6 on pages 104-111 of this Form 10-Q, and Note32 on pages 202-205 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Loan sale and securitization-related indemnificationsIndemnifications for breaches of representations and warrantiesAs part of the Firm's loan sale and securitization activities, asdescribed in Note 14 and Note 16 on pages 163-166 and 168-176, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's2008 Annual Report, the Firm generally makes representations and warranties in its loan sale andsecuritization agreements that the loans sold meet certain requirements. These agreements mayrequire the Firm (including in its roles as a servicer) to repurchase the loans and/or indemnifythe purchaser of the loans against losses due to any breaches of such representations orwarranties. Generally, the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would be required to make forbreaches under these representations and warranties would be equal to the current amount of assetsheld by such securitization-related SPEs plus, in certain circumstances, accrued and unpaidinterest on such loans and certain expense.During the first quarter of 2009, the Firm resolved certain current and future claims for certainloans originated and sold by Washington Mutual. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firmhad recorded a repurchase liability of $662&nbsp;million and $1.1&nbsp;billion, respectively.Loans sold with recourseThe Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial lendingproducts on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse servicing, the principal creditrisk to the Firm is the cost of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servicingadvances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk with the owner of themortgage loans, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan MortgageCorporation or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on recourse servicing predominantlyoccur when foreclosure sales proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan are less than thesum of the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and the cost of holdingand disposing of the underlying property. The Firm's loan sale transactions have primarily beenexecuted on a nonrecourse basis, thereby effectively transferring the risk of future credit lossesto the purchaser of the mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. At March&nbsp;31, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse totaled $14.7&nbsp;billionand $15.0&nbsp;billion, respectively. The carrying value of the related liability that the Firm hadrecorded, which is representative of the Firm's view of the likelihood it will have to performunder this guarantee, was $225&nbsp;million and $241&nbsp;million at March&nbsp;31, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively.144 Table of ContentsNOTE 24 &#151; BUSINESS SEGMENTSJPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments &#151; the Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services(&#147;TSS&#148;) and Asset Management (&#147;AM&#148;), as well as a Corporate/Private Equity segment. The segmentsare based on the products and services provided or the type of customer served, and they reflectthe manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of theselines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see thefootnotes to the table below. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase's businesssegments, see Business Segment Results on page 16 of this Form 10-Q, and pages 40-41 and Note 37 onpages 214-215 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Segment resultsThe following tables provide a summary of the Firm's segment results for the three months endedMarch&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, on a managed basis. The impact of credit card securitization adjustmentshas been included in reconciling items so that the total Firm results are on a reported basis.Finally, total net revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the segmentsis presented on a tax-equivalent basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities andinvestments that receive tax credits are presented in the managed results on a basis comparable totaxable securities and investments. This approach allows management to assess the comparability ofrevenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impactrelated to these items is recorded within income tax expense (benefit). The following tablessummarize the business segment results and reconciliation to reported U.S. GAAP results.145 Table of Contents146 Table of Contents147 Table of ContentsJPMORGAN CHASE & CO.CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS, INTEREST AND RATES(Taxable-Equivalent Interest and Rates; in millions, except rates)148 Table of ContentsGLOSSARY OF TERMSACH: Automated Clearing House.Advised lines of credit: An authorization which specifies the maximum amount of a credit facilitythe Firm has made available to an obligor on a revolving but non-binding basis. The borrowerreceives written or oral advice of this facility. The Firm may cancel this facility at any time.AICPA: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.AICPA Statement of Position (&#147;SOP&#148;) 03-3: &#147;Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquiredin a Transfer.&#148;Assets under management: Represent assets actively managed by Asset Management on behalf ofInstitutional, Retail, Private Banking, Private Wealth Management and Bear Stearns Brokerageclients. Excludes assets managed by American Century Companies, Inc., in which the Firm has a 42%ownership interest as of March&nbsp;31, 2009Assets under supervision: Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage,administration and deposit accounts.Average managed assets: Refers to total assets on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets pluscredit card receivables that have been securitized.Beneficial interest issued by consolidated VIEs: Represents the interest of third-party holders ofdebt/equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that JPMorgan Chase consolidates underFIN 46R. The underlying obligations of the VIEs consist of short-term borrowings, commercial paperand long-term debt. The related assets consist of trading assets, available-for-sale securities,loans and other assets.Benefit obligation: Refers to the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and theaccumulated postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans.Combined loan-to-value ratio: For residential real estate loans, an indicator of how much equity aborrower has in a secured borrowing based on current estimates of the value of the collateral andconsidering all lien positions related to the property.Commodities contracts: Exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter forwards are contracts todeliver specified commodities (e.g., gold, electricity, natural gas, other precious and basemetals, oil, farm products, livestock) on an agreed-upon future settlement date in exchange forcash. Exchange-traded commodities swaps and over-the-counter commodities swap contracts arecontracts to deliver fixed cash payments in exchange for cash payments that float based on changesin an underlying commodities index.Contractual credit card charge-off: In accordance with the Federal Financial InstitutionsExamination Council policy, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which theaccount becomes 180&nbsp;days past due or within 60&nbsp;days from receiving notification of the filing ofbankruptcy, whichever is earlier.Credit card securitizations: Card Services' managed results excludes the impact of credit cardsecuritizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loanreceivables. Through securitization, the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivablesinto securities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from theConsolidated Balance Sheets through the transfer of the receivables to a trust, and through thesale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flowsgenerated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests asseller's interests, which are recorded in loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A gain or losson the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in other income. Securitizationalso affects the Firm's Consolidated Statements of Income, as the aggregate amount of interestincome, certain fee revenue and recoveries that is in excess of the aggregate amount of interestpaid to investors, gross credit losses and other trust expense related to the securitizedreceivables are reclassified into credit card income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Credit derivatives: Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one ormore referenced credits. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer andprotection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvencyor failure to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer149
