>Management's discussion and analysisThis section of JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;(&#8220;Annual Report&#8221;), provides Management's discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (&#8220;MD&A&#8221;) of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of Terms on pages 311&#8211;315&#32;for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking Statements on page 173) and in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;(&#8220;2015&#32;Form 10-K&#8221;), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors; reference is hereby made to both.JPMorgan Chase & Co.,&#32;a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the U.S., with operations worldwide; the Firm had $2.4 trillion&#32;in assets and $247.6 billion&#32;in stockholders' equity as of December&#160;31, 2015.&#32;The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23&#32;states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (&#8220;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association that is the Firm's credit card-issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (&#8220;JPMorgan Securities&#8221;), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm's principal operating subsidiaries in the United Kingdom (&#8220;U.K.&#8221;)&#32;is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&nbsp;For management reporting purposes, the Firm's activities are organized into four&#32;major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm's consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (&#8220;CCB&#8221;) segment. The Firm's wholesale business segments are Corporate & Investment Bank (&#8220;CIB&#8221;), Commercial Banking (&#8220;CB&#8221;), and Asset Management (&#8220;AM&#8221;). For a description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases, refer to Business Segment Results on pages 83&#8211;106, and Note 33.This executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a complete description of the trends and uncertainties, as well as the risks and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.&nbsp;Summary of 2015 ResultsJPMorgan Chase reported record full-year 2015 net income of $24.4 billion, and record earnings per share of $6.00, on net revenue of $93.5 billion. Net income increased by $2.7 billion compared with net income of $21.7 billion in 2014. ROE for the year was 11%, up from 10% in the prior year.The increase in net income in 2015 was driven by lower taxes and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower net revenue and a higher provision for credit losses. The decline in net revenue was predominantly driven by lower Corporate private equity gains, lower CIB revenue reflecting the impact of business simplification, and lower CCB Mortgage Banking revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate and higher operating lease income, predominantly in CCB. The decrease in noninterest expense was driven by lower CIB expense, reflecting the impact of business simplification, and lower CCB expense as a result of efficiencies, predominantly reflecting declines in headcount-related expense and lower professional fees, partially offset by investments in the business. As a result of these changes, the Firm's overhead ratio in 2015 was lower compared with the prior year. The provision for credit losses increased from the prior year as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, reflecting the impact of downgrades, including in the Oil & Gas portfolio. The consumer provision declined, reflecting lower net charge-offs due to continued discipline in credit underwriting, as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home prices and lower unemployment levels. This was partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses.Total firmwide allowance for credit losses in 2015 was $14.3 billion, resulting in a loan loss coverage ratio of 1.37%, excluding the PCI portfolio, compared with 1.55% in the prior year. The Firm's allowance for loan losses to retained nonaccrual loans, excluding the PCI portfolio and credit card, was 117% compared with 106% in 2014. Firmwide, net charge-offs were $4.1 billion for the year, down $673 million from 2014. Nonperforming assets at year-end were $7.0 billion, down $933 million.The Firm's results reflected solid underlying performance across its four major reportable business segments, with continued strong lending and consumer deposit growth. Firmwide average core loans increased by 12% compared with the prior year. Within CCB, Consumer & Business Banking average deposits increased 9% over the prior year. The Firm had nearly 23 million active mobile customers at year end, an increase of 20% over the prior year. Credit card sales volume (excluding Commercial Card) was up 7% for the year and merchant processing volume was up 12%. The CIB maintained its #1 ranking in Global Investment Banking Fees according to Dealogic. CB had record average loans, with an 11% increase compared with the prior year. CB also had record gross investment banking revenue of $2.2 billion, up 10% from the prior year. AM had positive net long-term Management's discussion and analysisclient inflows and continued to deliver strong investment performance with 80% of mutual fund assets under management (&#8220;AUM&#8221;) ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartiles over the past five years. AM also increased average loan balances by 8% in 2015. In 2015, the Firm continued to adapt its strategy and financial architecture toward meeting regulatory and capital requirements and the changing banking landscape, while serving its clients and customers, investing in its businesses, and delivering strong returns to its shareholders. Importantly, the Firm exceeded all of its 2015 financial targets including those related to balance sheet optimization and managing its capital, its GSIB surcharge and expense. On capital, the Firm exceeded its capital target of reaching Basel III Fully Phased-In Advanced and Standardized CET1 ratios of approximately 11%, ending the year with estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in CET1 capital and ratio of $173.2 billion and 11.6%, respectively. The Firm also exceeded its target of reducing its GSIB capital surcharge, ending the year at an estimated 3.5% GSIB surcharge, achieved through a combination of reducing wholesale non-operating deposits, level 3 assets and derivative notionals.The Firm's fully phased-in supplementary leverage ratio (&#8220;SLR&#8221;) was 6.5% and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s fully phased-in SLR was 6.6%. The Firm was also compliant with the fully phased-in U.S. liquidity coverage ratio (&#8220;LCR&#8221;) and had $496 billion of HQLA as of year-end 2015. The Firm's tangible book value per share was $48.13, an increase of 8% from the prior year. Total stockholders' equity was $247.6 billion at December 31, 2015. Tangible book value per share and each of these Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In measures are non-GAAP financial measures; they are used by management, bank regulators, investors and analysts to assess and monitor the Firm's capital position and liquidity. For further discussion of Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in measures and the SLR under the U.S. final SLR rule, see Capital Management on pages 149&#8211;158, and for further discussion of LCR and HQLA, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159&#8211;164.&nbsp;The Firm provided credit to and raised capital of $2.0 trillion for its clients during 2015. This included $705 billion of credit to corporations, $233 billion of credit to consumers, and $22 billion to U.S. small businesses. During 2015, the Firm also raised $1.0 trillion of capital for clients. Additionally, $68 billion of credit was provided to, and capital was raised for, nonprofit and government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.The Firm has substantially completed its business simplification agenda, exiting businesses, products or clients that were non-core, not at scale or not returning the appropriate level of return in order to focus on core activities for its core clients and reduce risk to the Firm. While the business simplification initiative impacted revenue growth in 2015, it did not have a meaningful impact on the Firm's profitability. The Firm continues to focus on streamlining, simplifying and centralizing operational functions and processes in order to attain more consistencies and efficiencies across the Firm. To that end, the Firm continues to make progress on simplifying its legal entity structure, streamlining its Global Technology function, rationalizing its use of vendors, and optimizing its real estate location strategy.Business outlook These current expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 173&#32;and the Risk Factors section on pages 8&#8211;18.Business OutlookJPMorgan Chase's outlook for the full-year 2016 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical&#32;environment, the competitive environment, client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of these inter-related factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its lines of business. The Firm expects it will continue to make appropriate adjustments to its businesses and operations in response to ongoing developments in the legal and regulatory, as well as business and economic, environment in which it operates. In the first quarter of 2016, management expects net interest income and net interest margin to be relatively flat when compared with the fourth quarter of 2015. During 2016, if there are no changes in interest rates, management expects net interest income could be approximately $2 billion higher than in 2015, reflecting the Federal Reserve's rate increase in December 2015 and loan growth.Management expects core loan growth of approximately 10%-15% in 2016 as well as continued growth in retail deposits which are anticipated to lead to the Firm's balance sheet growing to approximately $2.45 trillion in 2016.Management also expects managed noninterest revenue of approximately $50 billion in 2016, a decrease from 2015, primarily driven by lower Card revenue reflecting renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements and lower revenue in Mortgage Banking. The Firm continues to experience charge-offs at levels lower than its through-the-cycle expectations reflecting favorable credit trends across the consumer and wholesale portfolios, excluding Oil & Gas. Management expects total net charge-offs of up to approximately $4.75 billion in 2016. Based on the changes in market expectations for oil prices since year-end 2015, management believes reserves during the first quarter of 2016 could increase by approximately $500 million for Oil & Gas, and by approximately $100 million for Metals & Mining.&nbsp;The Firm continues to take a disciplined approach to managing its expenses, while investing in growth and innovation. The Firm intends to leverage its scale and improve its operating efficiencies, in order to reinvest its expense savings in additional technology and marketing investments and fund other growth initiatives. As a result, Firmwide adjusted expense in 2016 is expected to be approximately $56 billion (excluding Firmwide legal expense). Additionally, the Firm will continue to adapt its capital assessment framework to review businesses and client relationships against multiple binding constraints, including GSIB and other applicable capital requirements, imposing internal limits on business activities to align or optimize the Firm's balance sheet and risk-weighted assets (&#8220;RWA&#8221;) with regulatory requirements in order to ensure that business activities generate appropriate levels of shareholder value. During 2016, the Firm expects the CET1 capital ratio calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach to become its binding constraint. As a result of the anticipated growth in the balance sheet, management anticipates that the Firm will have, over time, $1.55 trillion in Standardized risk weighted assets, and is expecting that, over the next several years, its Basel III CET1 capital ratio will be between 11% and 12.5%. In the longer term, management expects to maintain a minimum Basel III CET1 ratio of 11%. It is the Firm's current intention that the Firm's capital ratios continue to exceed regulatory minimums as they are fully implemented in 2019 and thereafter. Likewise, the Firm will be evolving its funding framework to ensure it meets the current and proposed more stringent regulatory liquidity rules, including those relating to the availability of adequate Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (&#8220;TLAC&#8221;).In Mortgage Banking within CCB, management expects noninterest revenue to decline by approximately $700 million in 2016 as servicing balances continue to decline from year-end 2015 levels. The Card net charge-off rate is expected to be approximately 2.5% in 2016.In CIB, management expects Investment Banking revenue in the first quarter of 2016 to be approximately 25% lower than the prior year first quarter, driven by current market conditions in the underwriting businesses.&#160;In addition, Markets revenue to date in the first quarter of 2016 is down approximately 20%, when compared to a particularly strong period in the prior year and reflecting the current challenging market conditions. Prior year Markets revenue was positively impacted by macroeconomic events, including the Swiss franc decoupling from the Euro. Actual Markets revenue results for the first quarter will continue to be affected by market conditions, which can be volatile.&#160;In Securities Services, management expects revenue of approximately $875 million in the first quarter of 2016.Management's discussion and analysisThe following section of the MD&A provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&#160;31, 2015. Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 165&#8211;169.2015 compared with 2014 Total net revenue for 2015 was down by 2% compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by lower Corporate private equity gains, lower CIB revenue reflecting the impact of business simplification initiatives, and lower CCB Mortgage Banking revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate, and higher operating lease income, predominantly in CCB.Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, reflecting higher advisory fees, partially offset by lower equity and debt underwriting fees. The increase in advisory fees was driven by a greater share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in industry-wide fee levels. The decrease in equity underwriting fees resulted from lower industry-wide issuance, and the decrease in debt underwriting fees resulted primarily from lower loan syndication and bond underwriting fees on lower industry-wide fee levels. For additional information on investment banking fees, see CIB segment results on pages 94&#8211;98&#32;and Note 7.Principal transactions revenue decreased from the prior year, reflecting lower private equity gains in Corporate driven by lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales as the Firm exits this non-core business. The decrease was partially offset by higher client-driven market-making revenue, particularly in foreign exchange, interest rate and &nbsp;equity-related products in CIB, as well as a gain of approximately $160 million on CCB's investment in Square, Inc. upon its initial public offering. For additional information, see CIB and Corporate segment results on pages 94&#8211;98&#32;and pages 105&#8211;106, respectively, and Note 7.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue decreased compared with the prior year, largely as a result of lower fees in CIB and lower performance fees in AM. The decrease was partially offset by higher asset management fees as a result of net client inflows into assets under management and the impact of higher average market levels in AM and CCB. For additional information, see the segment discussions of CIB and AM on pages 94&#8211;98&#32;and pages 102&#8211;104, respectively, and Note 7.Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting lower servicing revenue largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced, and lower net production revenue reflecting a lower repurchase benefit. For further information on mortgage fees and related income, see the segment discussion of CCB on pages 85&#8211;93&#32;and Notes 7 and 17.For information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see the segment results for CCB on pages 85&#8211;93, CIB on pages 94&#8211;98, and CB on pages 99&#8211;101&#32;and Note 7; securities gains, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 105&#8211;106; and card income, see CCB segment results on pages 85&#8211;93.Other income was relatively flat compared with the prior year, reflecting a $514 million benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate, higher operating lease income as a result of growth in auto operating lease assets in CCB, and the absence of losses related to the exit of non-core portfolios in Card. These increases were offset by the impact of business simplification in CIB; the absence of a benefit recognized in 2014 from a franchise tax settlement; and losses related to the accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits.Net interest income was relatively flat compared with the prior year, as lower loan yields, lower investment securities net interest income, and lower trading asset balance and yields were offset by higher average loan balances and lower interest expense on deposits. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion in 2015, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent (&#8220;FTE&#8221;) basis, was 2.14%, a decrease of 4 basis points from the prior year.2014 compared with 2013Total net revenue for 2014 was down by 2% compared with the prior year, predominantly due to lower mortgage fees and related income and lower other income. The decrease was partially offset by higher asset management, administration and commissions revenue.Investment banking fees increased compared with the prior year, due to higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, largely offset by lower debt underwriting fees. The increase in advisory fees was driven by the combined impact of a greater share of fees for completed transactions, and growth in industry-wide fees. The increase in equity underwriting fees was driven by higher industry-wide issuance. The decrease in debt underwriting fees was primarily related to lower bond underwriting fees compared with the prior year, and lower loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fees. Principal transactions revenue increased as the prior year included a $1.5 billion loss related to the implementation of the funding valuation adjustment (&#8220;FVA&#8221;) framework for over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC&#8221;) derivatives and structured notes. Private equity gains increased as a result of higher net gains on sales. These increases were partially offset by lower fixed income markets revenue in CIB, primarily driven by credit-related and rates products, as well as the impact of business simplification initiatives. Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting the impact of business simplification initiatives and lower trade finance revenue in CIB. Asset management, administration and commissions revenue increased compared with the prior year, reflecting higher asset management fees driven by net client inflows and higher market levels in AM and CCB. The increase was offset partially by lower commissions and other fee revenue in CCB as a result of the exit of a non-core product in 2013. Securities gains decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting lower repositioning activity related to the Firm's investment securities portfolio. Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared with the prior year, predominantly due to lower net production revenue driven by lower volumes due to higher mortgage interest rates, and tighter margins. The decline in net production revenue was partially offset by a lower loss on the risk management of mortgage servicing rights (&#8220;MSRs&#8221;).Card income was relatively flat compared with the prior year, but included higher net interchange income due to growth in credit and debit card sales volume, offset by higher amortization of new account origination costs. Other income decreased from the prior year, predominantly from the absence of two significant items recorded in Corporate in 2013: gains of $1.3 billion and $493 million from sales of Visa shares and One Chase Manhattan Plaza, respectively. Lower valuations of seed capital investments in AM and losses related to the exit of non-core portfolios in Card also contributed to the decrease. These items were partially offset by higher auto lease income as a result of growth in auto lease volume, and a benefit from a tax settlement.&nbsp;Net interest income increased slightly from the prior year, predominantly reflecting higher yields on investment securities, the impact of lower interest expense from lower rates, and higher average loan balances. The increase was partially offset by lower yields on loans due to the run-off of higher-yielding loans and new originations of lower-yielding loans, and lower average interest-earning trading asset balances. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.0 trillion, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a FTE basis, was 2.18%, a decrease of 5 basis points from the prior year.2015 compared with 2014The provision for credit losses increased from the prior year as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, largely reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the consumer provision, reflecting lower net charge-offs due to continued discipline in credit underwriting, as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home prices and lower unemployment levels. The increase was partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses. For a more detailed discussion of the credit portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 85&#8211;93, CB on pages 99&#8211;101, and the Allowance For Credit Losses on pages 130&#8211;132.2014 compared with 2013The provision for credit losses increased by $2.9 billion from the prior year as result of a lower benefit from reductions in the consumer allowance for loan losses, partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The consumer allowance reduction in 2014 was primarily related to the consumer, excluding credit card, portfolio and reflected the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio. The wholesale provision reflected a continued favorable credit environment. Management's discussion and analysis2015 compared with 2014&#32;Total noninterest expense decreased by 4% from the prior year, as a result of lower CIB expense, predominantly reflecting the impact of business simplification; and lower CCB expense resulting from efficiencies related to declines in headcount-related expense and lower professional fees. These decreases were partially offset by investment in the businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.Compensation expense decreased compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by lower performance-based incentives and reduced headcount, partially offset by higher postretirement benefit costs and investment in the businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.Noncompensation expense decreased from the prior year, reflecting benefits from business simplification in CIB; lower professional and outside services expense, reflecting lower legal services expense and a reduced number of contractors in the businesses; lower amortization of intangibles; and the absence of a goodwill impairment in Corporate. These factors were partially offset by higher depreciation expense, largely associated with higher auto operating lease assets in CCB; higher marketing expense in CCB; and higher FDIC-related assessments. Legal expense was relatively flat compared with the prior year. For a further discussion of legal expense, see Note 31.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013Total noninterest expense decreased by $9.2 billion, or 13%, from the prior year, as a result of lower other expense (in particular, legal expense) and lower compensation expense.Compensation expense decreased compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by lower headcount in CCB Mortgage Banking, lower performance-based compensation expense in CIB, and lower postretirement benefit costs. The decrease was partially offset by investments in the businesses, including headcount for controls.Noncompensation expense decreased compared with the prior year, due to lower other expense, predominantly reflecting lower legal expense. Lower expense for foreclosure-related matters and production and servicing-related expense in CCB Mortgage Banking, lower FDIC-related assessments, and lower amortization due to certain fully amortized intangibles, also contributed to the decline. The decrease was offset partially by investments in the businesses, including for controls, and costs related to business simplification initiatives across the Firm. 2015 compared with 2014The effective tax rate decreased compared with the prior year, predominantly due to the recognition in 2015 of tax benefits of $2.9 billion and other changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, partially offset by prior-year tax adjustments. The recognition of tax benefits in 2015 was due to the resolution of various tax audits, as well as the release of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities. For further information see Note 26.2014 compared with 2013The decrease in the effective tax rate from the prior year was largely attributable to the effect of the lower level of nondeductible legal-related penalties, partially offset by higher 2014 pretax income in combination with changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, and lower tax benefits associated with tax adjustments and the settlement of tax audits. &nbsp;The following is a discussion of the significant changes between December 31, 2015 and 2014.Cash and due from banks and deposits with banksThe Firm's excess cash is placed with various central banks, predominantly Federal Reserve Banks. The net decrease in cash and due from banks and deposits with banks was primarily due to the Firm's actions to reduce wholesale non-operating deposits.Securities borrowedThe decrease was largely driven by a lower demand for securities to cover short positions in CIB. For additional information, refer to Notes 3 and 13.Trading assets&#8211;debt and equity instrumentsThe decrease was predominantly related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, which resulted in lower levels of both debt and equity instruments. For additional information, refer to Note 3.Trading assets and liabilities&#8211;derivative receivables and payablesThe decrease in both receivables and payables was predominantly driven by declines in interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives and equity derivatives due to market movements, maturities and settlements related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB. For additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 127&#8211;129, and Notes 3 and 6.SecuritiesThe decrease was largely due to paydowns and sales of non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, non-U.S. government debt securities, and non-U.S. corporate debt securities reflecting a shift to loans. For additional information related to securities, refer to the discussion in the Corporate segment on pages 105&#8211;106, and Notes 3 and 12.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe increase in loans was attributable to an increase in consumer loans due to higher originations and retention of prime mortgages in Mortgage Banking (&#8220;MB&#8221;) and AM, and higher originations of auto loans in CCB, as well as an increase in wholesale loans driven by increased client activity, notably in commercial real estate.The decrease in the allowance for loan losses was attributable to a lower consumer, excluding credit card, allowance for loan losses, driven by a reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance as a result of continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies and increased granularity in the impairment estimates. The wholesale allowance increased, largely reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of loans and the allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 112&#8211;132, and Notes 3, 4, 14 and 15.Management's discussion and analysisAccrued interest and accounts receivableThe decrease was due to lower customer receivables related to client activity in CIB, and a reduction in unsettled securities transactions.Mortgage servicing rights For information on MSRs, see Note 17.Other assetsOther assets increased modestly as a result of an increase in income tax receivables, largely associated with the resolution of certain tax audits, and higher auto operating lease assets from growth in business volume. These factors were mostly offset by lower private equity investments driven by the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business and other portfolio sales.DepositsThe decrease was attributable to lower wholesale deposits, partially offset by higher consumer deposits. The decrease in wholesale deposits reflected the impact of the Firm's actions to reduce non-operating deposits. The increase in consumer deposits reflected continuing positive growth from strong customer retention. For more information, refer to the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 159&#8211;164; and Notes 3 and 19.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe decrease was due to a decline in secured financing of trading assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB and of investment securities in the Chief Investment Office (&#8220;CIO&#8221;). For additional information on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 159&#8211;164.&nbsp;Commercial paperThe decrease was associated with the discontinuation of a cash management product that offered customers the option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper (&#8220;customer sweeps&#8221;), and lower issuances in the wholesale markets, consistent with Treasury's short-term funding plans. For additional information, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159&#8211;164.Accounts payable and other liabilitiesThe decrease was due to lower brokerage customer payables related to client activity in CIB.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsThe decrease was predominantly due to a reduction in commercial paper issued by conduits to third parties and to maturities of certain municipal bond vehicles in CIB, as well as net maturities of credit card securitizations. For further information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 77&#8211;78&#32;and Note 16.Long-term debtThe increase was due to net issuances, consistent with Treasury's long-term funding plans. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activities, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159&#8211;164&#32;and Note 21.Stockholders' equityThe increase was due to net income and preferred stock issuances, partially offset by the declaration of cash dividends on common and preferred stock, and repurchases of common stock. For additional information on accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;), see Note 25; for the Firm's capital actions, see Capital Management on page 157&#32;and Notes 22, 23 and 25.In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-balance sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S (&#8220;U.S. GAAP&#8221;). The Firm is involved with several types of off&#8211;balance sheet arrangements, including through nonconsolidated special-purpose entities (&#8220;SPEs&#8221;), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesThe most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, including the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically established for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a limited life and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and by creating investment products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-seller conduits, investor intermediation activities, and loan securitizations. See Note 16 for further information on these types of SPEs.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. could be required to provide funding if its short-term credit rating were downgraded below specific levels, &nbsp;primarily &#8220;P-1&#8221;, &#8220;A-1&#8221; and &#8220;F1&#8221; for Moody's Investors Service (&#8220;Moody's&#8221;), Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. These liquidity commitments support the issuance of asset-backed commercial paper by Firm-administered consolidated SPEs. In the event of a short-term credit rating downgrade, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., absent other solutions, would be required to provide funding to the SPE if the commercial paper could not be reissued as it matured. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper outstanding held by third parties as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, was $8.7 billion&#32;and $12.1 billion, respectively. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper issued by these SPEs could increase in future periods should clients of the Firm-administered consolidated SPEs draw down on certain unfunded lending-related commitments. These unfunded lending-related commitments were $5.6 billion&#32;and $9.9 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively. The Firm could facilitate the refinancing of some of the clients' assets in order to reduce the funding obligation. For further information, see the discussion of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits in Note 16.The Firm also acts as liquidity provider for certain municipal bond vehicles. The Firm's obligation to perform as liquidity provider is conditional and is limited by certain termination events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer and any credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade. See Note 16 for additional information.Off&#8211;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase&#32;provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments, and the Firm's accounting for them, see Lending-related commitments on page 127&#32;and Note 29. For a discussion of liabilities associated with loan sales and securitization-related indemnifications, see Note 29.Management's discussion and analysisContractual cash obligationsThe accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's significant contractual cash obligations at December&#160;31, 2015. The contractual cash obligations included in the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and determinable. Excluded from the below table are certain liabilities with variable cash flows and/or no obligation to return a stated amount of principal at maturity.&nbsp;The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum contractual amount of the obligations reported below. For a discussion of mortgage repurchase liabilities and other obligations, see Note 29.Operating activitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilities support the Firm's lending and capital markets activities, including the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale. Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven and risk management activities and market conditions. The Firm believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances and its capacity to generate cash through secured and unsecured sources are sufficient to meet the Firm's operating liquidity needs.Cash provided by operating activities in 2015 resulted from a decrease in trading assets, predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, resulting in lower levels of debt and equity securities. Additionally, cash was provided by a decrease in accounts receivable due to lower client receivables and higher net proceeds from loan sales activities. This was partially offset by cash used due to a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities, resulting from lower brokerage customer payables related to client activity in CIB. In 2014 cash provided reflected higher net proceeds from loan securitizations and sales activities when compared with 2013. In 2013 cash provided reflected a decrease in trading assets from client-driven market-making activities in CIB, resulting in lower levels of debt securities, partially offset by net cash used in connection with loans originated or purchased for sale. Cash provided by operating activities for all periods also reflected net income after noncash operating adjustments.Investing activitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantly include loans originated to be held for investment, the investment securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning assets. Cash provided by investing activities during 2015 predominantly resulted from lower deposits with banks due to the Firm's actions to reduce wholesale non-operating deposits; and net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, sales and purchases of investment securities. Partially offsetting these net inflows was cash used for net originations of consumer and wholesale loans, a portion of which reflected a shift from investment securities. Cash&nbsp;used in investing activities during 2014 and 2013 resulted from increases in deposits with banks, attributable to higher levels of excess funds; cash was also used for growth in wholesale and consumer loans in 2014, while in 2013 cash used reflected growth only in wholesale loans. Partially offsetting these cash outflows in 2014 and 2013 was a net decline in securities purchased under resale agreements due to a shift in the deployment of the Firm's excess cash by Treasury, and a net decline in consumer loans in 2013 resulting from paydowns and portfolio runoff or liquidation of delinquent loans. Investing activities in 2014 and 2013 also reflected net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, sales and purchases of investment securities.Financing activitiesThe Firm's financing activities includes cash related to customer deposits, long-term debt, and preferred and common stock. Cash used in financing activities in 2015 resulted from lower wholesale deposits partially offset by higher consumer deposits. Additionally, in 2015 cash outflows were attributable to lower levels of commercial paper due to the discontinuation of a cash management product that offered customers the option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper; lower commercial paper issuances in the wholesale markets; and a decrease in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements due to a decline in secured financings. Cash provided by financing activities in 2014 and 2013 predominantly resulted from higher consumer and wholesale deposits; partially offset in 2013 by a decrease in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, predominantly due to changes in the mix of the Firm's funding sources. For all periods, cash was provided by net proceeds from long-term borrowings and issuances of preferred stock; and cash was used for repurchases of common stock and cash dividends on common and preferred stock.* * *For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm's cash flows, see Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 75&#8211;76, Capital Management on pages 149&#8211;158, and Liquidity Risk Management on pages 159&#8211;164.Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements using U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear on pages 176&#8211;180. That presentation, which is referred to as &#8220;reported&#8221; basis, provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results, including the overhead ratio, and the results of the lines of business, on a &#8220;managed&#8221; basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.&nbsp;Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit, which impacted the CIB. As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, the Firm made an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of qualifying investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received, and to present the amortization as a component of income tax expense; previously such amounts were predominantly presented in other income. The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and, accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The adoption of the guidance did not materially change the Firm's results of operations on a managed basis as the Firm had previously presented and will continue to present the revenue from such investments on an FTE basis in other income for the purposes of managed basis reporting.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business-segment level, because it believes these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its competitors. Non- GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.&nbsp;Tangible common equity (&#8220;TCE&#8221;), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm's common stockholders' equity (i.e., total stockholders' equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm's earnings as a percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm's TCE at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE, ROTCE, and TBVPS are meaningful to the Firm, as well as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm's use of equity.Additionally, certain credit and capital metrics and ratios disclosed by the Firm are non-GAAP measures. For additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see Credit Risk Management on pages 112&#8211;132, and Capital Management on pages 149&#8211;158.Management's discussion and analysisNet interest income excluding markets-based activities (formerly core net interest income)In addition to reviewing net interest income on a managed basis, management also reviews net interest income excluding CIB's markets-based activities to assess the performance of the Firm's lending, investing (including asset-liability management) and deposit-raising activities. The data presented below are non-GAAP financial measures due to the exclusion of CIB's markets-based net interest income and related assets. Management believes this exclusion provides investors and analysts with another measure by which to analyze the non-markets-related business trends of the Firm and provides a comparable measure to other financial institutions that are primarily focused on lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.Net interest income excluding CIB markets-based activities data&nbsp;2015&#32;compared with 2014&#32;Net interest income excluding CIB's markets-based activities increased by $740 million&#32;in 2015&#32;to $39.8 billion, and average interest-earning assets increased by $56.2 billion&#32;to $1.6 trillion. The increase in net interest income in 2015&#32;predominantly reflected higher average loan balances and lower interest expense on deposits. The increase was partially offset by lower loan yields and lower investment securities net interest income. The increase in average interest-earning assets largely reflected the impact of higher average deposits with banks. These changes in net interest income and interest-earning assets resulted in the net interest yield decreasing by 4&#32;basis points to 2.50%&#32;for 2015.2014&#32;compared with 2013Net interest income excluding CIB's markets-based activities increased by $543 million&#32;in 2014&#32;to $39.1 billion, and average interest-earning assets increased by $72.8 billion&#32;to $1.5 trillion. The increase in net interest income in 2014&#32;predominantly reflected higher yields on investment securities, the impact of lower interest expense, and higher average loan balances. The increase was partially offset by lower yields on loans due to the run-off of higher-yielding loans and new originations of lower-yielding loans. The increase in average interest-earning assets largely reflected the impact of higher average balance of deposits with banks. These changes in net interest income and interest-earning assets resulted in the net interest yield decreasing by 9&#32;basis points to 2.54%&#32;for 2014.The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major reportable business segments &#8211; Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment.&nbsp;The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, on pages 80&#8211;82.Description of business segment reporting methodology Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment results allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. The Firm periodically assesses the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharing When business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, the participating business segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricing Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to the Treasury group within Corporate. The allocation process is unique to each business segment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of that segment as if it were operating independently, and as compared with its stand-alone peers. This process is overseen by senior management and reviewed by the Firm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;).&nbsp;Preferred stock dividend allocationAs part of its funds transfer pricing process, the Firm allocates substantially all of the cost of its outstanding preferred stock to its reportable business segments, while retaining the balance of the cost in Corporate. This cost is included as a reduction to net income applicable to common equity in order to be consistent with the presentation of firmwide results. Business segment capital allocation changes On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented.&#160;Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules) and economic risk. The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity.&#160; For further information about line of business capital, see Line of business equity on page 156.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by corporate support units, or another business segment, the costs of those services are allocated to the respective business segments. The expense is generally allocated&#160;based on actual cost and use of services provided. In contrast, certain other costs related to corporate support Management's discussion and analysisunits, or to certain technology and operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. Expense retained in Corporate generally includes parent company costs that would not be incurred if the &nbsp;segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align corporate support units; and other items not aligned with a particular business segment. Segment Results &#8211; Managed BasisThe following tables summarize the business segment results for the periods indicated.Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.&nbsp;2015 compared with 2014Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.8 billion, an increase of 7% compared with the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and lower provision for credit losses, largely offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $43.8 billion, a decrease of 1% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.2 billion, down 1%, driven by spread compression, predominantly offset by higher deposit and loan balances, and improved credit quality including lower reversals of interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $15.6 billion, down 2%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income, predominantly offset by higher auto lease and card sales volume, and the impact of non-core portfolio exits in Card in the prior year.The provision for credit losses was $3.1 billion, a decrease of 13% from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-offs, partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The current-year provision reflected a $1.0 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses, compared with a $1.3 billion reduction in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $24.9 billion, a decrease of 3% from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking expense.2014 compared with 2013Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.2 billion, a decrease of 17% compared with the prior year, due to higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.Net revenue was $44.4 billion, a decrease of 5% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.4 billion, down 2%, driven by spread compression and lower mortgage warehouse balances, largely offset by higher deposit balances in Consumer & Business Banking and higher loan balances in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $16.0 billion, a decrease of 9%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, compared with $335 million in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $1.3 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $4.8 billion. The prior-year provision reflected a $5.5 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $5.8 billion.Noninterest expense was $25.6 billion, a decrease of 8% from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking expense.Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;pages 130&#8211;132.Consumer & Business Banking2015 compared with 2014Consumer & Business Banking&#32;net income was $3.6 billion, an increase of 4% compared with the prior year.Net revenue was $18.0 billion, down 1% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $10.4 billion, down 6% due to deposit spread compression, largely offset by higher deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $7.5 billion, up 5%, driven by higher debit card revenue, reflecting an increase in transaction volume, higher deposit-related fees as a result of an increase in customer accounts and a gain on the sale of a branch.Noninterest expense was $11.9 billion, a decrease of 2% from the prior year, driven by lower headcount-related expense due to branch efficiencies, partially offset by higher legal expense.2014 compared with 2013Consumer & Business Banking net income was $3.4 billion, an increase of 17%, compared with the prior year, due to higher net revenue.Net revenue was $18.2 billion, up 5% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $11.1 billion, up 4% compared with the prior year, driven by higher deposit balances, largely offset by deposit spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $7.2 billion, up 6%, driven by higher investment revenue, reflecting an increase in client investment assets, higher debit card revenue, reflecting an increase in transaction volume, and higher deposit-related fees as a result of an increase in customer accounts.&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisMortgage Banking2015 compared with 2014Mortgage Banking&#32;net income was $1.8 billion, an increase of 7% from the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and a higher benefit from the provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $6.8 billion, a decrease of 13% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.4 billion, an increase of 3% from the prior year, due to higher loan balances resulting from originations of high-quality loans that have been retained, partially offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $2.4 billion, a decrease of 32% from the prior year. This decrease was driven by lower servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced and lower net production revenue, reflecting a lower repurchase benefit.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $690 million, compared to a benefit of $217 million in the prior year, reflecting a larger reduction in the allowance for loan losses and lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision reflected a $600 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $375 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses; the prior-year provision included a $400 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $300 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses. These reductions were due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in both periods, as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates in the current year.Noninterest expense was $4.6 billion, a decrease of 13% from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related expense and lower professional fees.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013Mortgage Banking net income was $1.7 billion, a decrease of 48%, from the prior year, driven by a lower benefit from the provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.Net revenue was $7.8 billion, a decrease of 24%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.2 billion, a decrease of 11%, driven by spread compression and lower loan balances due to portfolio runoff and lower warehouse balances. Noninterest revenue was $3.6 billion, a decrease of 34%, driven by lower net production revenue, largely reflecting lower volumes, lower servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced, and lower revenue from an exited non-core product, largely offset by higher MSR risk management income and lower MSR asset amortization expense as a result of lower MSR asset value. See Note 17 for further information regarding changes in value of the MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $217 million, compared to a benefit of $2.7 billion in the prior year, reflecting a smaller reduction in the allowance for loan losses, partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision reflected a $400 million reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and $300 million reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses; the prior-year provision included a $2.3 billion reduction in the non credit-impaired allowance for loan losses and a $1.5 billion reduction in the purchased credit-impaired allowance for loan losses. These reductions were due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, a decrease of 30%, from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related expense, the absence of non-mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;MBS&#8221;) related legal expense, lower expense on foreclosure-related matters, and lower FDIC-related expense.&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Mortgage servicing-related mattersThe financial crisis resulted in unprecedented levels of delinquencies and defaults of 1&#8211;4 family residential real estate loans. Such loans required varying degrees of loss mitigation activities. Foreclosure is usually a last resort, and accordingly, the Firm has made, and continues to make, significant efforts to help borrowers remain in their homes.The Firm entered into various Consent Orders and settlements with federal and state governmental agencies and private parties related to mortgage servicing, origination, and residential mortgage-backed securities activities. The requirements of these Consent Orders and settlements vary, but in the aggregate, include cash compensatory payments (in addition to fines) and/or &#8220;borrower relief,&#8221; which may include principal reduction, refinancing, short sale assistance, and other specified types of borrower relief. Other obligations required under certain Consent Orders and settlements, as well as under new regulatory requirements, include enhanced mortgage servicing and foreclosure standards and processes.On June 11, 2015, the Firm signed the Second Amended Mortgage Banking Consent Order (the &#8220;Amended OCC Consent Order&#8221;) with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;), which focused on ten remaining open items from the original mortgage-servicing Consent Order entered into with the OCC in April 2011 and imposed certain business restrictions on the Firm's mortgage banking activities.&#160;The Firm completed its work on those items, and on January 4, 2016, the OCC terminated the Amended OCC Consent Order and lifted the mortgage business restrictions. The Firm remains under the mortgage-servicing Consent Order entered into with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) on April 13, 2011, as amended on February 28, 2013 (the &#8220;Federal Reserve Consent Order&#8221;). The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors will provide governance and oversight of the Federal Reserve Consent Order in 2016.The Federal Reserve Consent Order and certain other mortgage-related settlements are the subject of ongoing reporting to various regulators and independent overseers. The Firm's compliance with certain of these settlements is detailed in periodic reports published by the independent overseers. The Firm is committed to fulfilling all of these commitments with appropriate due diligence and oversight.Card, Commerce Solutions & AutoNote: Chase Commerce Solutions, formerly known as Merchant Services, includes Chase Paymentech, ChaseNet and Chase Offers businesses.2015 compared with 2014Card net income was $4.4 billion, an increase of 9% compared with the prior year, driven by higher net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $19.0 billion, an increase of 4% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $13.4 billion, up 2% from the prior year, driven by higher loan balances and improved credit quality including lower reversals of interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card and a reduction in the reserve for uncollectible interest and fees, partially offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $5.6 billion, up 8% compared with the prior year, driven by higher auto lease and card sales volumes, the impact of non-core portfolio exits in the prior year and a gain on the investment in Square, Inc. upon its initial public offering, largely offset by the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements and higher amortization of new account origination costs.&nbsp;The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year, reflecting a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses, predominantly offset by lower net charge-offs. The current-year provision reflected a $51 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, primarily due to runoff in the student loan portfolio. The prior-year provision included a $554 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, primarily related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in troubled debt restructurings (&#8220;TDRs&#8221;), runoff in the student loan portfolio and lower estimated losses in auto loans.Noninterest expense was $8.4 billion, up 3% from the prior year, driven by higher auto lease depreciation and higher marketing expense, partially offset by lower legal expense.2014 compared with 2013Card net income was $4.1 billion, a decrease of 17%, compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue.Net revenue was $18.3 billion, down 3% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $13.2 billion, a decrease of 3% from the prior year, primarily driven by spread compression in Credit Card and Auto, partially offset by higher average loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $5.2 billion, down 3% from the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by higher amortization of new account origination costs and the impact of non-core portfolio exits, largely offset by higher auto lease income and net interchange income from higher sales volume.The provision for credit losses was $3.4 billion, compared with $2.7 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a $554 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The reduction in the allowance for loan losses was primarily related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in TDRs, runoff in the student loan portfolio, and lower estimated losses in auto loans. The prior-year provision included a $1.7 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses.Noninterest expense was $8.2 billion, up 1% from the prior year, primarily driven by higher auto lease depreciation expense and higher investment in controls, predominantly offset by lower intangible amortization and lower remediation costs.Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;2015 compared with 2014 Net income was $8.1 billion, up 17% compared with $6.9 billion in the prior year. The increase primarily reflected lower income tax expenses largely reflecting the release in 2015 of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities and lower noninterest expense partially offset by lower net revenue, both driven by business simplification, as well as higher provisions for credit losses.Banking revenue was $11.5 billion, up 1% versus the prior year. Investment banking revenue was $6.4 billion, up 4% from the prior year, driven by higher advisory fees, partially offset by lower debt and equity underwriting fees. Advisory fees were $2.1 billion, up 31% on a greater share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in the industry-wide fee levels. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, according to Dealogic. Debt underwriting fees were $3.2 billion, down 6%, primarily related to lower bond underwriting and loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fee levels. The Firm ranked #1 globally in fee share across high grade, high yield and loan products. Equity underwriting fees were $1.4 billion, down 9%, driven by lower industry-wide fee levels. The Firm was #1 in equity underwriting fees in 2015, up from #3 in 2014. Treasury Services revenue was $3.6 billion, down 3% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by lower net interest income. Lending revenue was $1.5 billion, down 6% from the prior year, driven by lower trade finance revenue on lower loan balances.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $22.1 billion, down 5% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $12.6 billion, down 11% from the prior year, primarily driven by the impact of business simplification as well as lower revenue in credit-related products on an industry-wide slowdown, partially offset by increased revenue in Rates and Currencies & Emerging Markets on higher client activity. The lower Fixed Income revenue also reflected higher interest costs on higher long-term debt. Equity Markets revenue was $5.7 billion, up 13%, primarily driven by higher equity derivatives revenue across all regions. Securities Services revenue was $3.8 billion, down 13% from the prior year, driven by lower fees as well as lower net interest income. The provision for credit losses was $332 million, compared to a benefit of $161 million in the prior year, reflecting a higher allowance for credit losses, including the impact of select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Noninterest expense was $21.4 billion, down 8% compared with the prior year, driven by the impact of business simplification as well as lower legal and compensation expenses. &nbsp;2014 compared with 2013Net income was $6.9 billion, down 22% compared with $8.9 billion in the prior year. These results primarily reflected higher noninterest expense. Net revenue was $34.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year.Banking revenue was $11.4 billion, down 3% from the prior year. Investment banking revenue was $6.1 billion, up 3% from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, partially offset by lower debt underwriting fees. Advisory fees were $1.6 billion, up 24% on stronger share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in the industry-wide fee levels, according to Dealogic. Equity underwriting fees were $1.6 billion, up 5%, driven by higher industry-wide issuance. Debt underwriting fees were $3.4 billion, down 4%, primarily related to lower loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fee levels and lower bond underwriting fees. The Firm also ranked #1 globally in fees and volumes share across high grade, high yield and loan products. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, and improved share of fees both globally and in the U.S. compared with the prior year. Treasury Services revenue was $3.7 billion, up 1% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by higher net interest income from increased deposits, largely offset by business simplification initiatives. Lending revenue was $1.5 billion, down from $2.1 billion in the prior year, driven by losses, compared with gains in the prior periods, on securities received from restructured loans, as well as lower net interest income and lower trade finance revenue.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $23.2 billion, up 1% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $14.1 billion, down 12% from the prior year, driven by lower revenues in Fixed Income primarily from credit-related and rates products as well as the impact of business simplification. Equity Markets revenue was $5.0 billion, up 1% as higher prime services revenue was partially offset by lower equity derivatives revenue. Securities Services revenue was $4.4 billion, up 6% from the prior year, primarily driven by higher net interest income on increased deposits and higher fees and commissions. Credit Adjustments & Other revenue was a loss of $272 million, driven by net CVA losses partially offset by gains, net of hedges, related to FVA/DVA. The prior year was a loss of $2.1 billion (including the FVA implementation loss of $1.5 billion and DVA losses of $452 million).Noninterest expense was $23.3 billion, up 7% compared with the prior year as a result of higher legal expense and investment in controls. This was partially offset by lower performance-based compensation expense as well as the impact of business simplification. Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;&#32;Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;2015&#32;compared with 2014Net income was $2.2 billion, a decrease of 17% compared with the prior year, driven by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $6.9 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, flat compared with the prior year, with interest income from higher loan balances offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $2.4 billion, flat compared with the prior year, with higher investment banking revenue offset by lower lending-related fees.Noninterest expense was $2.9 billion, an increase of 7% compared with the prior year, reflecting investment in controls.The provision for credit losses was $442 million, reflecting an increase in the allowance for credit losses for Oil & Gas exposure and other select downgrades. The prior year was a benefit of $189 million.2014&#32;compared with 2013Net income was $2.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense, predominantly offset by a lower provision for credit losses.Net revenue was $6.9 billion, a decrease of 3% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, a decrease of 5%, reflecting spread compression, the absence of proceeds received in the prior year from a lending-related workout, and lower purchase discounts recognized on loan repayments, partially offset by higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, up 2%, reflecting higher investment banking revenue, largely offset by business simplification and lower lending fees.Noninterest expense was $2.7 billion, an increase of 3% from the prior year, largely reflecting investments in controls.Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;2015&#32;compared with 2014Net income was $1.9 billion, a decrease of 10% compared with the prior year, reflecting higher noninterest expense, partially offset by higher net revenue.Net revenue was $12.1 billion, an increase of 1%. Net interest income was $2.6 billion, up 5%, driven by higher loan balances and spreads. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 billion, flat from last year, as net client inflows into assets under management and the impact of higher average market levels were predominantly offset by lower performance fees and the sale of Retirement Plan Services (&#8220;RPS&#8221;) in 2014.Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.3 billion, flat from the prior year as the sale of RPS in 2014 and lower performance fees were largely offset by net client inflows. Revenue from Global Wealth Management was $5.8 billion, up 2% from the prior year due to higher net interest income from higher loan balances and spreads and net client inflows, partially offset by lower brokerage revenue.Noninterest expense was $8.9 billion, an increase of 4%, predominantly due to higher legal expense and investment in both infrastructure and controls.2014&#32;compared with 2013Net income was $2.2 billion, an increase of 3% from the prior year, reflecting higher net revenue and lower provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $12.0 billion, an increase of 5% from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 billion, up 6% from the prior year due to net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital investments. Net interest income was $2.4 billion, up 3% from the prior year due to higher loan and deposit balances, largely offset by spread compression.Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.3 billion, up 6% due to net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital investments. Revenue from Global Wealth Management was $5.7 billion, up 5% from the prior year due to higher net interest income from loan and deposit balances and net client inflows, partially offset by spread compression and lower brokerage revenue.Noninterest expense was $8.5 billion, an increase of 7% from the prior year as the business continues to invest in both infrastructure and controls.&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisClient assets2015&#32;compared with 2014Client assets were $2.4 trillion, a decrease of 2% compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.7 trillion, a decrease of 1% from the prior year due to the effect of lower market levels partially offset by net inflows to long-term products.2014&#32;compared with 2013Client assets were $2.4 trillion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year. Excluding the sale of Retirement Plan Services, client assets were up 8% compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.7 trillion, an increase of 9% from the prior year due to net inflows to long-term products and the effect of higher market levels.&nbsp;&nbsp;2015 compared with 2014Net income was $2.4 billion, compared with net income of $864 million in the prior year.Net revenue was $267 million, compared with $12 million in the prior year. The current year included a $514 million benefit from a legal settlement. Treasury and CIO included a benefit of approximately $178 million associated with recognizing the unamortized discount on certain debt securities which were called at par and a $173 million pretax loss primarily related to accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits. Private Equity gains were $1.2 billion lower compared with the prior year, reflecting lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales as the Firm exits this non-core business. Noninterest expense was $977 million, a decrease of $182 million from the prior year which had included a $276 million goodwill impairment related to the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business. The current year reflected tax benefits of $2.6 billion predominantly from the resolution of various tax audits compared with tax benefits of $1.1 billion in the prior year. 2014 compared with 2013Net income was $864 million, compared to a net loss of $6.8 billion in the prior year.Net revenue was $12 million compared to a net loss of $22 million in the prior year. Current year net interest income was a loss of $2 billion compared to a loss of $3.1 billion in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher yields on investment securities. Securities gains were $71 million, compared with $659 million in the prior year, reflecting lower repositioning activity of the investment securities portfolio in the current period.Private Equity gains were $540 million higher compared with the prior year reflecting higher net gains on sales. Prior year net revenue also included gains of $1.3 billion and $493 million on the sales of Visa shares and One Chase Manhattan Plaza, respectively. Noninterest expense was $1.2 billion, a decrease of $9.1 billion due to a decrease in reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings in the prior year partially offset by the impact of a $276 million goodwill impairment related to the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business. Management's discussion and analysisTreasury and&#32;CIO&#32;overviewTreasury and CIO are predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks,&#32;as well as executing the Firm's capital plan. The risks managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the activities undertaken by the Firm's four major reportable business segments to serve their respective client bases, which generate both on- and off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.Treasury and CIO achieve the Firm's asset-liability management objectives generally by investing in high-quality securities that are managed for the longer-term as part of the Firm's investment securities portfolio. Treasury and CIO also use derivatives to meet the Firm's asset-liability management objectives. For further information on derivatives, see Note 6. The investment securities portfolio primarily consists of U.S. and non-U.S. government securities, agency and nonagency mortgage-backed securities, other asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities. At December&#160;31, 2015, the investment securities portfolio was $287.8 billion, and the average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio was AA+&#32;(based upon external ratings where available and where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's). See Note 12 for further information on the details of the Firm's investment securities portfolio.For further information on liquidity and funding risk, see Liquidity Risk Management on&#32;pages 159&#8211;164. For information on interest rate, foreign exchange and other risks, Treasury and CIO VaR and the Firm's earnings-at-risk, see Market Risk Management on&#32;pages 133&#8211;139.&nbsp;Private equity portfolio information(a)&#160;2015 compared with 2014The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 2015 was $2.1 billion, down from $5.9 billion at December 31, 2014, driven by the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business. 2014 compared with 2013The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 2014 was $5.9 billion, down from $7.9 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease in the portfolio was predominantly driven by sales of investments, partially offset by unrealized gains.Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale&#32;loan, advises customers on their investment decisions, makes markets in securities, or offers other products or services, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm's overall objective is to manage its businesses, and the associated risks, in a manner that balances serving the interests of its clients, customers and investors and protects the safety and soundness of the Firm.Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an enterprise-wide basis. The Firm's approach to risk management covers a broad spectrum of risk areas, such as credit, market, liquidity, model, structural interest rate, principal, country, operational, compliance, legal, capital and reputation risk, with controls and governance established for each area, as appropriate.The Firm believes that effective risk management requires:&nbsp;The Firm's Operating Committee, which consists of the Firm's Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;), Chief Risk Officer (&#8220;CRO&#8221;) and other senior executives, is responsible for developing and executing the Firm's risk management framework. The framework is intended to provide controls and ongoing management of key risks inherent in the Firm's business activities and create a culture of transparency, awareness and personal responsibility through reporting, collaboration, discussion, escalation and sharing of information. The Operating Committee is responsible and accountable to the Firm's Board of Directors.The Firm strives for continual improvement through ongoing employee training and development, as well as talent retention. The Firm follows a disciplined and balanced compensation framework with strong internal governance and independent Board oversight.&#160;The impact of risk and control issues are carefully considered in the Firm's performance evaluation and incentive compensation processes. The Firm is also engaged in a number of activities focused on conduct risk and in regularly evaluating its culture with respect to its business principles.Management's discussion and analysisThe following sections outline the key risks that are inherent in the Firm's business activities.Risk appetite and governanceThe Firm's overall tolerance for risk is governed by a &#8220;Risk Appetite&#8221; framework for measuring and monitoring risk. The framework measures the Firm's capacity to take risk against stated quantitative tolerances and qualitative factors at each of the line of business (&#8220;LOB&#8221;) levels, as well as at the Firmwide level. The framework and tolerances are set and approved by the Firm's CEO, Chief Financial Officer (&#8220;CFO&#8221;), CRO and Chief Operating Officer (&#8220;COO&#8221;). LOB-level Risk Appetite parameters and tolerances are set by the respective LOB CEO, CFO and CRO and are approved by the Firm's CEO, CFO, CRO and COO. Quantitative risk tolerances are expressed in terms of tolerance levels for stressed net income, market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, structural interest rate risk, operational risk and capital. Risk Appetite results are reported quarterly to the Risk Policy Committee of the Board of Directors (&#8220;DRPC&#8221;).&nbsp;The Firm's CRO is responsible for the overall direction of the Firm's Risk Management functions and is head of the Risk Management Organization, reporting to the Firm's CEO and DRPC. The Risk Management Organization operates independently from the revenue-generating businesses, which enables it to provide credible challenge to the businesses. The leadership team of the Risk Management Organization is aligned to the various LOBs and corporate functions as well as across the Firm for firmwide risk categories (e.g. firmwide market risk, firmwide model risk, firmwide reputation risk, etc.) producing a matrix structure with specific subject matter expertise to manage risks both within the businesses and across the Firm. The Firm places key reliance on each of the LOBs as the first line of defense in risk governance. The LOBs are accountable for identifying and addressing the risks in their respective businesses and for operating within a sound control environment.In addition to the Risk Management Organization, the Firm's control environment also includes firmwide functions like Oversight and Control, Compliance and Internal Audit.The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group consists of dedicated control officers within each of the lines of business and corporate functions, as well as a central oversight function. The group is charged with enhancing the Firm's control environment by looking within and across the lines of business and&#160;corporate functions to identify and remediate control issues. The group enables the Firm to detect control problems more quickly, escalate issues promptly and engage other stakeholders to understand common themes and interdependencies among the various parts of the Firm.Each line of business is accountable for managing its compliance risk. The Firm's Compliance Organization (&#8220;Compliance&#8221;), which is independent of the lines of &nbsp;business, works closely with the Operating Committee and management to provide independent review, monitoring and oversight of&#160;business operations with a focus on compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations applicable to the offering of the Firm's products and services to clients and customers.Internal Audit, a function independent of the businesses, Compliance and the Risk Management Organization, tests and evaluates the Firm's risk governance and management, as well as its internal control processes. This function brings a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of the Firm's governance, risk management and internal control processes. Risk governance structureThe independent status of the Risk Management Organization is supported by a governance structure that provides for escalation of risk issues up to senior management and the Board of Directors. The chart below illustrates the key senior management level committees in the Firm's risk governance structure. Other committees and forums are in place that are responsible for management and oversight of risk, although they are not shown in the chart below. &#160;The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk principally through the DRPC, Audit Committee and, with respect to compensation and other management-related matters, Compensation & Management Development Committee. Each committee of the Board oversees reputation risk issues within its scope of responsibility.Management's discussion and analysisThe Risk Policy Committee of the Board oversees the Firm's global risk management framework and approves the primary risk-management policies of the Firm. The Committee's responsibilities include oversight of management's exercise of its responsibility to assess and manage risks of the Firm, as well as its capital and liquidity planning and analysis.&#160;Breaches in risk appetite tolerances, liquidity issues that may have a material adverse impact on the Firm and other significant risk-related matters are escalated to the Committee.The Audit Committee of the Board assists the Board in its oversight of management's responsibilities to assure that there is an effective system of controls reasonably designed to safeguard the assets and income of the Firm, assure the integrity of the Firm's financial statements and maintain compliance with the Firm's ethical standards, policies, plans and procedures, and with laws and regulations.&#160;In addition, the Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm's independent registered public accounting firm's qualifications and independence.&#160;The Independent Internal Audit Function at the Firm is headed by the General Auditor, who reports to the Audit Committee.The Compensation & Management Development Committee&#32;assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm's compensation programs and reviews and approves the Firm's overall compensation philosophy, incentive compensation pools, and compensation practices consistent with key business objectives and safety and soundness. The Committee reviews Operating Committee members' performance against their goals, and approves their compensation awards. The Committee also periodically reviews the Firm's diversity programs and management development and succession planning, and provides oversight of the Firm's culture and conduct programs.Among the Firm's senior management-level committees that are primarily responsible for key risk-related functions are:The Firmwide Risk Committee (&#8220;FRC&#8221;)&#32;is the Firm's highest management-level risk committee. It provides oversight of the risks inherent in the Firm's businesses. The Committee is co-chaired by the Firm's CEO and CRO. Members of the Committee include the Firm's COO, CFO, Treasurer & Chief Investment Officer, and General Counsel, as well as LOB CEOs and CROs, and other senior managers from risk and control functions. This Committee serves as an escalation point for risk topics and issues raised by its members, the Line of Business Risk Committees, Firmwide Control Committee, Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee, Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance and regional Risk Committees. The Committee escalates significant issues to the Board of Directors, as appropriate.&nbsp;The Firmwide Control Committee (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) is&#32;a forum for senior management to discuss firmwide operational risks including existing and emerging issues, to monitor operational risk metrics, and to review the execution of the Operational Risk Management Framework (&#8220;ORMF&#8221;). The FCC is co-chaired by the Chief Control Officer and the Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance. It serves as an escalation point for the line of business, corporate functions and regional Control Committees and escalates significant issues to the FRC, as appropriate.The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee (&#8220;FFRGC&#8221;)&#32;is a forum for risk matters related to the Firm's fiduciary activities. The Committee oversees the firmwide fiduciary risk governance framework, which supports the consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk matters by the relevant lines of business or corporate functions responsible for managing fiduciary activities. The Committee escalates significant issues to the FRC and any other committee, as appropriate.The Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance Group seeks to promote consistent management of reputation risk across the Firm. Its objectives are to increase visibility of reputation risk governance; promote and maintain a globally consistent governance model for reputation risk across lines of business; promote early self-identification of potential reputation risks to the Firm; and provide thought leadership on cross-line-of-business reputation risk issues. Each line of business has a separate reputation risk governance structure which includes, in most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk committees.Line of Business and Regional Risk Committees review the ways in which the particular line of business or the business operating in a particular region could be exposed to adverse outcomes with a focus on identifying, accepting, escalating and/or requiring remediation of matters brought to these committees. These committees may escalate to the FRC, as appropriate.Line of Business, Corporate Function and Regional Control Committees&#32;oversee the control environment in the particular line of business or corporate function or the business operating in a particular region. They are responsible for reviewing the data indicating the quality and stability of the processes in a business or function, focusing on those processes with shortcomings and overseeing process remediation. These committees escalate to the FCC, as appropriate.The Asset Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;), chaired by the Firm's Treasurer under the direction of the COO, monitors the Firm's balance sheet, liquidity risk and structural interest rate risk. ALCO reviews the Firm's overall structural interest rate risk position, funding requirements and strategy, and securitization programs (and any required liquidity support by the Firm of such programs). ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving the Firm's Funds Transfer Pricing Policy (through which lines of business &#8220;transfer&#8221; interest rate risk to Treasury) and the Firm's Intercompany Funding and Liquidity Policy. ALCO is also responsible for reviewing the Firm's Contingency Funding Plan.The Capital Governance Committee,&#32;chaired by the Head of the Regulatory Capital Management Office (under the direction of the Firm's CFO) is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Capital Management Policy and the principles underlying capital issuance and distribution. The Committee is also responsible for governing the capital adequacy assessment process, including overall design, assumptions and risk streams, and for ensuring that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the idiosyncratic risks across the Firm's businesses.The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (&#8220;VGF&#8221;) is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the firmwide head of the Valuation Control function (under the direction of the Firm's CFO), and includes sub-forums covering the Corporate & Investment Bank, Consumer & Community Banking, Commercial Banking, Asset Management and certain corporate functions, including Treasury and Chief Investment Office.&nbsp;In addition, the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of management of the Bank. The JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board accomplishes this function acting directly and through the principal standing committees of the Firm's Board of Directors. Risk oversight on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. is primarily the responsibility of the DRPC and Audit Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors and, with respect to compensation and other management-related matters, the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors.Risk measurementThe Firm has a broad spectrum of risk management metrics, as appropriate for each risk category (refer to the table on key risks included on page 108). Additionally, the Firm is exposed to certain potential low-probability, but plausible and material, idiosyncratic risks that are not well-captured by its other existing risk analysis and reporting for credit, market, and other risks. These idiosyncratic risks may arise in a number of ways, such as changes in legislation, an unusual combination of market events, or specific counterparty events. The Firm has a process intended to identify these risks in order to allow the Firm to monitor vulnerabilities that are not adequately covered by its other standard risk measurements.Management's discussion and analysisCredit risk is the risk of loss arising from the default of a customer, client or counterparty. The Firm provides credit to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers and small businesses. In its consumer businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk primarily through its residential real estate, credit card, auto, business banking and student lending businesses. Originated mortgage loans are retained in the mortgage portfolio, securitized or sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises; other types of consumer loans are typically retained on the balance sheet. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk through its underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through its operating services activities (such as cash management and clearing activities), securities financing activities, investment securities portfolio, and cash placed with banks. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses are generally retained on the balance sheet; the Firm's syndicated loan business distributes a significant percentage of originations into the market and is an important component of portfolio management.Credit risk managementCredit risk management is an independent risk management function that identifies and monitors credit risk throughout the Firm and defines credit risk policies and procedures. The credit risk function reports to the Firm's CRO. The Firm's credit risk management governance includes the following activities:Risk identification and measurementThe Credit Risk Management function identifies, measures, limits, manages and monitors credit risk across the Firm's businesses. To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and borrower's credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the &nbsp;probability of default of an obligor or counterparty, the loss severity given a default event and the exposure at default.Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates credit losses for its exposures. Probable credit losses inherent in the consumer and wholesale loan portfolios are reflected in the allowance for loan losses, and probable credit losses inherent in lending-related commitments are reflected in the allowance for lending-related commitments. These losses are estimated using statistical analyses and other factors as described in Note 15. In addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital and represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the established allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments. The analyses for these losses include stress testing considering alternative economic scenarios as described in the Stress testing section below. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 165&#8211;169.The methodologies used to estimate credit losses depend on the characteristics of the credit exposure, as described below.Scored exposureThe scored portfolio is generally held in CCB and predominantly includes residential real estate loans, credit card loans, certain auto and business banking loans, and student loans. For the scored portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete periods of time. The statistical analysis uses portfolio modeling, credit scoring, and decision-support tools, which consider loan-level factors such as delinquency status, credit scores, collateral values, and other risk factors. Credit loss analyses also consider, as appropriate, uncertainties and other factors, including those related to current macroeconomic and political conditions, the quality of underwriting standards, and other internal and external factors. The factors and analysis are updated on a quarterly basis or more frequently as market conditions dictate.Risk-rated exposureRisk-rated portfolios are generally held in CIB, CB and AM, but also include certain business banking and auto dealer loans held in CCB that are risk-rated because they have characteristics similar to commercial loans. For the risk-rated portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on estimates of the probability of default (&#8220;PD&#8221;) and loss severity given a default. The estimation process begins with risk ratings that are assigned to each loan facility to differentiate risk within the portfolio. These risk ratings are reviewed regularly by Credit Risk Management and revised as needed to reflect the borrower's current financial position, risk profile and related collateral. The probability of default is the likelihood that a loan will default and not be fully repaid by the borrower. The loss given default (&#8220;LGD&#8221;) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon the default of the borrower and takes into consideration collateral and structural support for each credit facility.&#160;The probability of default is estimated for each borrower, and a loss given default is estimated for each credit facility. The calculations and assumptions are based on historic experience and management judgment and are reviewed regularly.Stress testingStress testing is important in measuring and managing credit risk in the Firm's credit portfolio. The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on estimated credit losses for the Firm. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally, are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, and applied across the businesses. The stress test results may indicate credit migration, changes in delinquency trends and potential losses in the credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress testing processes, management also considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, including industry and country- specific stress scenarios, as necessary. The Firm uses stress testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite both at a Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of stress on individual counterparties.Risk monitoring and managementThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and decision-making process of extending credit to ensure credit risks are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines for management of distressed exposures. In addition, certain models, assumptions and inputs used in evaluating and monitoring credit risk are independently validated by groups that are separate from the line of businesses.For consumer credit risk, delinquency and other trends, including any concentrations at the portfolio level, are monitored, as certain of these trends can be modified through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Risk Management evaluates delinquency and other trends against business expectations, current and forecasted economic conditions, and industry benchmarks. Historical and forecasted trends are incorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and are part of the monitoring of the credit risk profile of the portfolio. For further discussion of consumer loans, see Note 14.&nbsp;Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfolio, industry, and individual client and counterparty level with established concentration limits that are reviewed and revised as deemed appropriate by management, typically on an annual basis. Industry and counterparty limits, as measured in terms of exposure and economic risk appetite, are subject to stress-based loss constraints. In addition, wrong-way risk &#8212; the risk that exposure to a counterparty is positively correlated with the impact of a default by the same counterparty, which could cause exposure to increase at the same time as the counterparty's capacity to meet its obligations is decreasing &#8212; is actively monitored as this risk could result in greater exposure at default compared with a transaction with another counterparty that does not have this risk.Management of the Firm's wholesale credit risk exposure is accomplished through a number of means, including:In addition to Credit Risk Management, Internal Audit performs periodic exams, as well as continuous reviews, where appropriate, of the Firm's consumer and wholesale portfolios. For risk-rated portfolios, a Credit Review group within Internal Audit is responsible for:Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior members of Credit Risk Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, risk committees, senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate.Management's discussion and analysisIn the following tables, reported loans include loans retained (i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale (which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue); and certain loans accounted for at fair value. In addition, the Firm records certain loans accounted for at fair value in trading assets. For further information regarding these loans, see Note 3 and Note 4. For additional information on the Firm's loans and derivative receivables, including the Firm's accounting policies, see Note 14 and Note 6, respectively. For further information regarding the credit risk inherent in the Firm's cash placed with banks, investment securities portfolio, and securities financing portfolio, see Note 5, Note 12, and Note 13, respectively.Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm no longer includes within its disclosure of wholesale lending-related commitments the unused amount of advised uncommitted lines of credit as it is within the Firm's discretion whether or not to make a loan under these lines, and the Firm's approval is generally required prior to funding. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.For discussion of the consumer credit environment and consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 115&#8211;121&#32;and Note 14. For discussion of wholesale credit environment and wholesale loans, see Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 122&#8211;129&#32;and Note 14.&nbsp;The Firm's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, business banking loans, and student loans. The Firm's focus is on serving the prime segment of the consumer credit market. The credit performance of the consumer portfolio continues to benefit from discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home prices and lower unemployment. Both early-stage &nbsp;delinquencies (30&#8211;89 days delinquent) and late-stage delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) for residential real estate, excluding government guaranteed loans, declined from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;levels. The Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate and the net charge-off rate remain near historic lows. For further information on consumer loans, see Note 14.The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held by AM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corporate.&#32;For further information about the Firm's nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisConsumer, excluding credit cardPortfolio analysisConsumer loan balances increased during the year ended December&#160;31, 2015, predominantly due to originations of high-quality prime mortgage loans that have been retained, partially offset by paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. Credit performance has continued to improve across most portfolios as the economy strengthened and home prices increased.PCI loans are excluded from the following discussions of individual loan products and are addressed separately below. For further information about the Firm's consumer portfolio, including information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit quality indicators, see Note 14.Home equity:&#32;The home equity portfolio declined from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;primarily reflecting loan paydowns and charge-offs. Both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies declined from December&#160;31, 2014. Net charge-offs for both senior and junior lien home equity loans at December 31, 2015, declined when compared with the prior year as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies, but charge-offs remain elevated compared with pre-recessionary levels.At December 31, 2015, approximately 15%&#32;of the Firm's home equity portfolio consists of home equity loans (&#8220;HELOANs&#8221;) and the remainder consists of home equity lines of credit (&#8220;HELOCs&#8221;). HELOANs are generally fixed-rate, closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms ranging from 3&#8211;30 years. Approximately 60% of the HELOANs are senior lien loans and the remainder are junior lien loans. In general, HELOCs originated by the Firm are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC recasts into a loan with a 20-year amortization period. At the time of origination, the borrower typically selects one of two minimum payment options that will generally remain in effect during the revolving period: a monthly payment of 1% of the outstanding balance, or interest-only payments based on a variable index (typically Prime). HELOCs originated by Washington Mutual were generally revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of the loan's term.&nbsp;The unpaid principal balance of HELOCs outstanding was $41 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. Since January 1, 2014, approximately $8 billion&#32;of HELOCs have recast from interest-only to fully amortizing payments; based upon contractual terms, approximately $19 billion&#32;is scheduled to recast in the future, consisting of $7 billion&#32;in 2016, $6 billion&#32;in 2017 and $6 billion&#32;in 2018 and beyond. However, of the total $19 billion&#32;scheduled to recast in the future, $13 billion&#32;is expected to actually recast; and the remaining $6 billion&#32;represents loans to borrowers who are expected to pre-pay or loans that are likely to charge-off prior to recast. The Firm has considered this payment recast risk in its allowance for loan losses based upon the estimated amount of payment shock (i.e., the excess of the fully-amortizing payment over the interest-only payment in effect prior to recast) expected to occur at the payment recast date, along with the corresponding estimated probability of default and loss severity assumptions. Certain factors, such as future developments in both unemployment rates and home prices, could have a significant impact on the performance of these loans.The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a material deterioration in their credit risk profile. The Firm will continue to evaluate both the near-term and longer-term repricing and recast risks inherent in its HELOC portfolio to ensure that changes in the Firm's estimate of incurred losses are appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses and that the Firm's account management practices are appropriate given the portfolio's risk profile.High-risk seconds are junior lien loans where the borrower has a senior lien loan that is either delinquent or has been modified. Such loans are considered to pose a higher risk of default than junior lien loans for which the senior lien loan is neither delinquent nor modified. The Firm estimates the balance of its total exposure to high-risk seconds on a quarterly basis using internal data and loan level credit bureau data (which typically provides the delinquency status of the senior lien loan). The estimated balance of these high-risk seconds may vary from quarter to quarter for reasons such as the movement of related senior lien loans into and out of the 30+ day delinquency bucket.Of the estimated $1.4 billion&#32;of current high-risk junior liens at December&#160;31, 2015, the Firm owns approximately 10%&#32;and services approximately 25%&#32;of the related senior lien loans to the same borrowers. The increased probability of default associated with these higher-risk junior lien loans was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses.Mortgage:&#32;Prime mortgages, including option ARMs and loans held-for-sale, increased from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;due to originations of high-quality prime mortgage loans that have been retained partially offset by paydowns, the run-off of option ARM loans and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. High-quality loan originations for the year ending December&#160;31, 2015&#32;included both jumbo and conforming loans, primarily consisting of fixed interest rate loans. Excluding loans insured by U.S. government agencies, both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies declined from December&#160;31, 2014. Nonaccrual loans decreased from the prior year but remain elevated primarily as a result of loss mitigation activities. Net charge-offs remain low, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm's prime mortgage portfolio included $11.1 billion&#32;and $12.4 billion, respectively, of mortgage loans insured and/or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, of which $8.4 billion&#32;and $9.7 billion, respectively, were 30 days or more past due (of these past due loans, $6.3 billion&#32;and $7.8 billion, respectively, were 90 days or more past due). In 2014, the Firm entered into a settlement regarding loans insured under federal mortgage insurance programs overseen by the Federal Housing Administration (&#8220;FHA&#8221;), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (&#8220;HUD&#8221;), and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (&#8220;VA&#8221;); the Firm will continue to monitor exposure on future claim payments for government insured loans, but any financial impact related to exposure on future claims is not expected to be significant and was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses.&nbsp;At December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm's prime mortgage portfolio included $17.7 billion&#32;and $16.3 billion, respectively, of interest-only loans, which represented 11%&#32;and 15%, respectively, of the prime mortgage portfolio. These loans have an interest-only payment period generally followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing payment period to maturity and are typically originated as higher-balance loans to higher-income borrowers. To date, losses on this portfolio generally have been consistent with the broader prime mortgage portfolio and the Firm's expectations. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these loans.Subprime mortgages continued to decrease due to portfolio runoff. Early-stage and late-stage delinquencies have improved from December&#160;31, 2014. Net charge-offs continued to improve as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies.Auto: Auto loans increased from December&#160;31, 2014, as new originations outpaced paydowns and payoffs. Nonaccrual loans were stable compared with December&#160;31, 2014. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;increased compared with the prior year, as a result of higher loan balances and a moderate increase in loss severity. The auto loan portfolio predominantly consists of prime-quality credits.Business banking: Business banking loans increased from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;due to an increase in loan originations. Nonaccrual loans declined from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;decreased from the prior year due to continued discipline in credit underwriting.Student and other: Student and other loans decreased from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;due primarily to the run-off of the student loan portfolio as the Firm ceased originations of student loans during the fourth quarter of 2013. Nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs also declined as a result of the run-off of the student loan portfolio.Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction decreased as the portfolio continues to run off.As of December&#160;31, 2015, approximately 14%&#32;of the option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 64%&#32;of the portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans. Substantially all of the remaining loans are making amortizing payments, although such payments are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment recast. Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans when payment recast results in a payment increase. The expected increase in default rates is considered in the Firm's quarterly impairment assessment.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the allowance for loan losses.For further information on the Firm's PCI loans, including write-offs, see Note 14.Geographic composition of residential real estate loansAt December&#160;31, 2015, $123.0 billion, or 61%&#32;of total retained residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, were concentrated in California, New York, Illinois, Texas and Florida, compared with $94.3 billion, or 63%, at December&#160;31, 2014. California had the greatest concentration of retained residential loans with 28%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with 26%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans concentrated in these five states represented 74%&#32;of total PCI loans at both December&#160;31, 2015, and December&#160;31, 2014. For further information on the geographic composition of the Firm's residential real estate loans, see Note 14.&#32;&#32;&#32;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160; Current estimated loan-to-values (&#8220;LTVs&#8221;) of residential real estate loansThe current estimated average LTV ratio for residential real estate loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 59%&#32;at both December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014.&nbsp;Although home prices continue to recover, the decline inhome prices since 2007 has had a significant impact on the collateral values underlying the Firm's residential real estate loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with high LTV ratios is greater than the delinquency rate for loans in which the borrower has greater equity in the collateral. While a large portion of the loans with current estimated LTV ratios greater than 100% continue to pay and are current, the continued willingness and ability of these borrowers to pay remains a risk.The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratios for PCI loans, as well as the ratios of the carrying value of the underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratios of the carrying value to the current estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratios, which are based on the unpaid principal balances. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.The current estimated average LTV ratios were 65%&#32;and 78%&#32;for California and Florida PCI loans, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with 71%&#32;and 85%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2014. Average LTV ratios have declined consistent with recent improvements in home prices as well as a result of loan pay downs. Although home prices have improved, home prices in most areas of California and Florida are still lower than at the peak of the housing market; this continues to negatively affect current estimated average LTV ratios and the ratio of net carrying value to current estimated collateral value for loans in the PCI portfolio. Of the total PCI portfolio, 6%&#32;of the loans had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 1%&#32;had a current LTV ratio of greater than 125% at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with 10%&#32;and 2%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2014.While the current estimated collateral value is greater than the net carrying value of PCI loans, the ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on borrowers' behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homes with negative equity, as well as on the cost of alternative housing.For further information on current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans, see Note 14.Loan modification activities &#8211; residential real estate loansThe performance of modified loans generally differs by product type due to differences in both the credit quality and the types of modifications provided. Performance &nbsp;metrics for modifications to the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been seasoned more than six months show weighted-average redefault rates of 20%&#32;for senior lien home equity, 22%&#32;for junior lien home equity, 17%&#32;for prime mortgages including option ARMs, and 29%&#32;for subprime mortgages. The cumulative performance metrics for modifications to the PCI residential real estate portfolio that have been seasoned more than six months show weighted average redefault rates of 20%&#32;for home equity, 19%&#32;for prime mortgages, 16%&#32;for option ARMs and 33%&#32;for subprime mortgages. The favorable performance of the PCI option ARM modifications is the result of a targeted proactive program which fixed the borrower's payment to the amount at the point of modification. The cumulative redefault rates reflect the performance of modifications completed under both the U.S. Government's Home Affordable Modification Program (&#8220;HAMP&#8221;) and the Firm's proprietary modification programs (primarily the Firm's modification program that was modeled after HAMP) from October 1, 2009, through December&#160;31, 2015.Certain loans that were modified under HAMP and the Firm's proprietary modification programs have interest rate reset provisions (&#8220;step-rate modifications&#8221;). Interest rates on these loans generally began to increase in 2014 by 1% per year and will continue to do so, until the rate reaches a specified cap, typically at a prevailing market interest rate for a fixed-rate loan as of the modification date. The Management's discussion and analysiscarrying value of non-PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, with $447 million&#32;that experienced the initial interest rate increase in 2015 and $1 billion&#32;that is scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in each of 2016 and 2017. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $10 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, with $1 billion&#32;that experienced the initial interest rate increase in 2015, and $3 billion&#32;and $2 billion&#32;scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The Firm continues to monitor this risk exposure to ensure that it is appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses.The following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, relating to modified retained residential real estate loans for which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to be accounted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm's quarterly assessment of estimated future cash flows. Modifications of consumer loans other than PCI loans are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. For further information on modifications for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, see Note 14.&nbsp;Nonperforming assetsThe following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, about consumer, excluding credit card, nonperforming assets.Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio totaled&#32;$4.8 billion&#32;and&#32;$5.8 billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2015, and&#32;2014, respectively, of which&#32;31%&#32;and&#32;32%, respectively, were&#32;greater than 150 days past due. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due was charged down by approximately 44%&#32;and 50%&#32;to the estimated net realizable value of the collateral at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively. Active and suspended foreclosure:&#32;For information on loans that were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure, see Note 14.Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in the consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014.Credit CardTotal credit card loans increased from December&#160;31, 2014&#32;due to higher new account originations and increased credit card sales volume partially offset by sales of non-core loans and the transfer of commercial card loans to the CIB. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased to 1.43%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, from 1.44%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014. For the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, the net charge-off rates were 2.51%&#32;and 2.75%, respectively. The Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate and net charge-off rate remain near historic lows. Charge-offs have improved compared to a year ago due to continued discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement in the economy driven by lower unemployment. The credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification. &nbsp;Loans outstanding in the top five states of California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois consisted of $57.5 billion&#32;in receivables, or 44%&#32;of the retained loan portfolio, at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with $54.9 billion, or 43%, at December&#160;31, 2014. The greatest geographic concentration of credit card retained loans is in California, which represented 14%&#32;of total retained loans at both December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively. For further information on the geographic composition of the Firm's credit card loans, see Note 14.&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Modifications of credit card loansAt December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm had $1.5 billion&#32;and $2.0 billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that have been modified in TDRs. These balances included both credit card loans with modified payment terms and credit card loans that reverted back to their pre-modification payment terms because the cardholder did not comply with the modified payment terms. The decrease in modified credit card loans outstanding from December&#160;31, 2014, was attributable to a reduction in new modifications as well as ongoing payments and charge-offs on previously modified credit card loans. &nbsp;Consistent with the Firm's policy, all credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until charged off. However, the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans and charged to interest income, for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.For additional information about loan modification programs to borrowers, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm's wholesale businesses are exposed to credit risk through underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through various operating services such as cash management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses is generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm distributes a significant percentage of the loans it originates into the market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage portfolio concentrations and credit risk.The wholesale credit portfolio, excluding Oil & Gas, continued to be generally stable throughout 2015, characterized by low levels of criticized exposure, nonaccrual loans and charge-offs. Growth in loans retained was driven by increased client activity, notably in commercial real estate.&#160;Discipline in underwriting across all areas of lending continues to remain a key point of focus. The wholesale portfolio is actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews of client credit quality and transaction structure, inclusive of collateral where applicable; and of industry, product and client concentrations.&nbsp;The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's. For additional information on wholesale loan portfolio risk ratings, see Note 14.Wholesale credit exposure &#8211; industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, paying particular attention to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized align with the U.S. banking regulators' definition of criticized exposures, which consist &nbsp;of the special mention, substandard and doubtful categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was $14.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with $10.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, driven by downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Management's discussion and analysisEffective in the fourth quarter 2015, the Firm realigned its wholesale industry divisions in order to better monitor and manage industry concentrations. Included in this realignment is the combination of certain previous stand-alone industries (e.g. Consumer & Retail) as well as the creation of a new industry division, Financial Market Infrastructure, consisting of clearing houses, exchanges and related depositories. In the tables below, the prior period information has been revised to conform with the current period presentation.Below are summaries of the Firm's exposures as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014. For additional information on industry concentrations, see Note 5.Management's discussion and analysisPresented below is a discussion of certain industries to which the Firm has significant exposure and/or present actual or potential credit concerns. For additional information, refer to the tables on the previous pages.In addition to $42.1 billion in exposure classified as Oil & Gas, the Firm had $4.3 billion in exposure to Natural Gas Pipelines and related Distribution businesses, of which $893 million was drawn at year end and 63% was investment-grade, and $4.1 billion in exposure to commercial real estate in geographies sensitive to the Oil & Gas industry. The Firm continues to actively monitor and manage its exposure to the Oil & Gas industry in light of market conditions, and is also actively monitoring potential contagion effects on other related or dependent industries.&nbsp;LoansIn the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. The Firm actively manages its wholesale credit exposure. One way of managing credit risk is through secondary market sales of loans and lending-related commitments. For further discussion on loans, including information on credit quality indicators and sales of loans, see Note 14.The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan portfolio for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014.The following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014. The amounts in the table below do not include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual loans.Receivables from customersReceivables from customers primarily represent margin loans to prime and retail brokerage clients that are collateralized through a pledge of assets maintained in clients' brokerage accounts which are subject to daily minimum collateral requirements. In the event that the collateral value decreases, a maintenance margin call is made to the client to provide additional collateral into the account. If additional collateral is not provided by the client, the client's position may be liquidated by the Firm to meet the minimum collateral requirements.Lending-related commitmentsThe Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its obligations under these guarantees, and the counterparties subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments is not representative of the Firm's likely actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a &#8220;loan-equivalent&#8221; amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm's lending-related commitments was $212.4 billion&#32;and $216.5 billion&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.Clearing servicesThe Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into securities and derivative transactions. Through the provision of these services the Firm is exposed to the risk of non-performance by its clients and may be required to share in losses incurred by central counterparties (&#8220;CCPs&#8221;). Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk to its clients through the collection of adequate margin at inception and throughout the life of the transactions and can also cease provision of clearing services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the clearing agreement. For further discussion of Clearing services, see Note 29.&nbsp;Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-making activities. Derivatives enable customers to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its own credit and other market risk exposure. The nature of the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the derivative affect the credit risk to which the Firm is exposed. For OTC derivatives the Firm is exposed to the credit risk of the derivative counterparty. For exchange-traded derivatives (&#8220;ETD&#8221;), such as futures and options and &#8220;cleared&#8221; over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC-cleared&#8221;) derivatives, the Firm is generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant CCP. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk exposures arising from derivative transactions through the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements and collateral agreements. For further discussion of derivative contracts, counterparties and settlement types, see Note 6.The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables for the periods presented.Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance sheets were $59.7 billion&#32;and $79.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.&#160;These amounts represent the fair value of the derivative contracts, after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. However, in management's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also take into consideration additional liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and agency securities and other group of seven nations (&#8220;G7&#8221;) government bonds) and other cash collateral held by the Firm aggregating $16.6 billion&#32;and $19.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively, that may be used as security when the fair value of the client's exposure is in the Firm's favor. The decrease in derivative receivables was predominantly driven by declines in interest rate derivatives, commodity derivatives, foreign exchange derivatives and equity derivatives due to market movements, maturities and settlements related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB.Management's discussion and analysisIn addition to the collateral described in the preceding paragraph, the Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily cash; G7 government securities; other liquid government-agency and guaranteed securities; and corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in the table above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the client's derivative transactions move in the Firm's favor. As of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm held $43.7 billion&#32;and $48.6 billion, respectively, of this additional collateral. The derivative receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also does not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit. For additional information on the Firm's use of collateral agreements, see Note 6.While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net fair value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#8220;DRE&#8221;), and Average exposure (&#8220;AVG&#8221;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where applicable.Peak represents a conservative measure of potential exposure to a counterparty calculated in a manner that is broadly equivalent to a 97.5% confidence level. Peak is the primary measure used by the Firm for setting of credit limits for derivative transactions, senior management reporting and derivatives exposure management. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is used for aggregating derivative credit risk exposures with loans and other credit risk.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capital and the CVA, as further described below. The three year AVG exposure was $32.4 billion&#32;and $37.5 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively, compared with derivative receivables, net of all collateral, of $43.1 billion&#32;and $59.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.&nbsp;The fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm's risk management process takes into consideration the potential impact of wrong-way risk, which is broadly defined as the potential for increased correlation between the Firm's exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty's credit quality. Many factors may influence the nature and magnitude of these correlations over time. To the extent that these correlations are identified, the Firm may adjust the CVA associated with that counterparty's AVG. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions.The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to the Firm's current derivatives portfolio over the next 10&#160;years as calculated by the Peak, DRE and AVG metrics. The three measures generally show that exposure will decline after the first year, if no new trades are added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresDecember 31, 2015(in billions)The following table summarizes the ratings profile by derivative counterparty of the Firm's derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of other liquid securities collateral, at the dates indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's.As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements &#8212; excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity &#8212; was 87%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2015, largely unchanged compared with 88%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2014.Credit derivativesThe Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an end-user to manage the Firm's own credit risk associated with various exposures. For a detailed description of credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.Credit portfolio management activitiesIncluded in the Firm's end-user activities are credit derivatives used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposure in the Firm's wholesale businesses (collectively, &#8220;credit portfolio management&#8221; activities). Information on credit portfolio management activities is provided in the table below. For further information on derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to manage other exposures, including credit risk arising from certain securities held in the Firm's market-making businesses. These credit derivatives are not included in credit portfolio management activities; for further information on these credit derivatives as well as credit derivatives used in the Firm's capacity as a market-maker in credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.&nbsp;The credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall credit exposure.The effectiveness of the Firm's credit default swap (&#8220;CDS&#8221;) protection as a hedge of the Firm's exposures may vary depending on a number of factors, including the named reference entity (i.e., the Firm may experience losses on specific exposures that are different than the named reference entities in the purchased CDS); the contractual terms of the CDS (which may have a defined credit event that does not align with an actual loss realized by the Firm); and the maturity of the Firm's CDS protection (which in some cases may be shorter than the Firm's exposures). However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to the maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was purchased, and remaining differences in maturity are actively monitored and managed by the Firm.Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers both the consumer (primarily scored) portfolio and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio. The allowance represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses and related management judgments, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 165&#8211;169&#32;and Note 15.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm, and discussed with the DRPC and Audit Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors. As of December&#160;31, 2015, JPMorgan Chase&#32;deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio.&nbsp;The consumer, excluding credit card, allowance for loan losses decreased from December&#160;31, 2014, due to a reduction in the residential real estate portfolio allowance, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies and increased granularity in the impairment estimates. For additional information about delinquencies and nonaccrual loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 115&#8211;121&#32;and Note 14.The credit card allowance for loan losses was relatively unchanged from December&#160;31, 2014, reflecting stable credit quality trends. For additional information about delinquencies in the credit card loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 115&#8211;121&#32;and Note 14.The wholesale allowance for credit losses increased from December 31, 2014, reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio. Excluding Oil and Gas, the wholesale portfolio continued to experience generally stable credit quality trends and low charge-off rates.Management's discussion and analysisProvision for credit lossesFor the year ended December&#160;31, 2015, the provision for credit losses was $3.8 billion, compared with $3.1 billion&#32;for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014. The total consumer provision for credit losses for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;reflected lower net charge-offs due to continued discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home prices and lower unemployment, partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan loss compared with December&#160;31, 2014. &nbsp;The wholesale provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflected the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio.Market risk is the potential for adverse changes in the value of the Firm's assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities or credit spreads.Market risk managementMarket Risk management, part of the independent risk management function, is responsible for identifying and monitoring market risks throughout the Firm and defines market risk policies and procedures. The Market Risk function reports to the Firm's CRO.Market Risk seeks to control risk, facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operating performance and provide transparency into the Firm's market risk profile for senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the following functions:Risk identification and classificationEach line of business is responsible for the management of the market risks within its units. The independent risk management group responsible for overseeing each line of business is charged with ensuring that all material market risks are appropriately identified, measured, monitored and managed in accordance with the risk policy framework set out by Market Risk.Risk measurementTools used to measure risk Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:&nbsp;Risk monitoring and control Market risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits set in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity and accommodation of client business and management experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate level limits include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line of business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Limits may also be set within the lines of business, as well at the portfolio or legal entity level.Limits are set by Market Risk and are regularly reviewed and updated as appropriate, with any changes approved by line of business management and Market Risk. Senior management, including the Firm's CEO and CRO, are responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk limits on an ongoing basis. All limits that have not been reviewed within specified time periods by Market Risk are escalated to senior management. The lines of business are responsible for adhering to established limits against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner to limit approvers, Market Risk and senior management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk consults with Firm senior management and the line of business senior management to determine the appropriate course of action required to return to compliance, which may include a reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach. Certain Firm or line of business-level limits that have been breached for three business days or longer, or by more than 30%, are escalated to senior management and the Firmwide Risk Committee.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table summarizes by LOB the predominant business activities that give rise to market risk, and the market risk management tools utilized to manage those risks; CB is not presented in the table below as it does not give rise to significant market risk.Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in a normal market environment. The Firm has a single VaR framework used as a basis for calculating Risk Management VaR and Regulatory VaR.The framework is employed across the Firm using historical simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The framework's approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative of the distribution of potential outcomes in the immediate future. The Firm believes the use of Risk Management VaR provides a stable measure of VaR that closely aligns to the day-to-day risk management decisions made by the lines of business, and provides the necessary and appropriate information needed to respond to risk events on a daily basis.Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which approximates a 95% confidence level. VaR provides a consistent framework to measure risk profiles and levels of diversification across product types and is used for aggregating risks across businesses and monitoring limits. These VaR results are reported to senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators.Under the Firm's Risk Management VaR methodology, assuming current changes in market values are consistent with the historical changes used in the simulation, the Firm would expect to incur VaR &#8220;band breaks,&#8221; defined as losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates, not more than five times every 100 trading days. The number of VaR band breaks observed can differ from the statistically expected number of band breaks if the current level of market volatility is materially different from the level of market volatility during the 12 months of historical data used in the VaR calculation.Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual VaR models that simulate historical market returns for individual products and/or risk factors. To capture material market risks as part of the Firm's risk management framework, comprehensive VaR model calculations are performed daily for businesses whose activities give rise to market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes in market values over the historical period; inputs are selected based on the risk profile of each portfolio as sensitivities and historical time series used to generate daily market values may be different across product types or risk management systems. The VaR model results across all portfolios are aggregated at the Firm level.For certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of appropriate historical data for these products. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and other products when daily time series are not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based time series for these products, if available, would affect the VaR results presented. &nbsp;In addition, data sources used in VaR models may not be the same as those used for financial statement valuations. In cases where market prices are not observable, or where proxies are used in VaR historical time series, the sources may differ. The daily market data used in VaR models may be different than the independent third-party data collected for VCG price testing in VCG's monthly valuation process (see Valuation process in Note 3 for further information on the Firm's valuation process). VaR model calculations require daily data and a consistent source for valuation and therefore it is not practical to use the data collected in the VCG monthly valuation process. Since VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure of market risk exposure and potential losses, and it is not used to estimate the impact of stressed market conditions or to manage any impact from potential stress events. In addition, based on their reliance on available historical data, limited time horizons, and other factors, VaR measures are inherently limited in their ability to measure certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe shifts in market conditions. The Firm therefore considers other measures in addition to VaR, such as stress testing, to capture and manage its market risk positions.The Firm's VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm's portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm's modeling techniques and other factors. Such changes may also affect historical comparisons of VaR results. Model changes undergo a review and approval process by the Model Review Group prior to implementation into the operating environment. For further information, see Model risk on page 142.The Firm calculates separately a daily aggregated VaR in accordance with regulatory rules (&#8220;Regulatory VaR&#8221;), which is used to derive the Firm's regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III. This Regulatory VaR model framework currently assumes a ten business-day holding period and an expected tail loss methodology which approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is applied to &#8220;covered&#8221; positions as defined by Basel III, which may be different than the positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR. For example, credit derivative hedges of accrual loans are included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these credit derivative hedges. In addition, in contrast to the Firm's Risk Management VaR, Regulatory VaR currently excludes the diversification benefit for certain VaR models.Management's discussion and analysisFor additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other components of market risk regulatory capital (e.g. VaR-based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the respective backtesting) for the Firm, see JPMorgan Chase's &nbsp;Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).The table below shows the results of the Firm's Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.As presented in the table above, average Total VaR and average CIB VaR increased during 2015 when compared with 2014. The increase in Total VaR was primarily due to higher volatility in the CIB in the historical one-year look-back period during 2015 versus 2014.Average CIB trading VaR increased during 2015 primarily due to higher VaR in the Fixed Income and Equities risk factors reflecting a combination of higher market volatility and increased exposure.Average Mortgage Banking VaR decreased from the prior year. Average Mortgage Banking VaR was elevated late in the second quarter of 2014 due to a change in the MSR hedge position made in advance of an anticipated update to certain MSR model assumptions; when such updates were implemented, the MSR VaR decreased to levels more consistent with prior periods.The Firm continues to enhance the VaR model calculations and time series inputs related to certain asset-backed products.&nbsp;The Firm's average Total VaR diversification benefit was $10 million&#32;or 21%&#32;of the sum for 2015, compared with $7 million&#32;or 16%&#32;of the sum for 2014. In general, over the course of the year, VaR exposure can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.VaR back-testingThe Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology by back-testing, which compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with the daily gains and losses recognized on market-risk related revenue.The Firm's definition of market risk-related gains and losses is consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators under Basel III. Under this definition market risk-related gains and losses are defined as: gains and losses on the positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation adjustments (e.g., liquidity and DVA), net interest income, and gains and losses arising from intraday trading.The following chart compares the daily market risk-related gains and losses with the Firm's Risk Management VaR for the year ended December 31, 2015. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of back-testing disclosed in the Market Risk section of the Firm's &nbsp;Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered positions. The chart shows that for the year ended December 31, 2015, the Firm observed three VaR band breaks and posted Market risk-related gains on 117 of the 260 days in this period.Other risk measures Economic-value stress testing Along with VaR, stress testing is an important tool in measuring and controlling risk. While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market behavior as an indicator of losses, stress testing is intended to capture the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm runs weekly stress tests on market-related risks across the lines of business using multiple scenarios that assume significant changes in risk factors such as credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates or commodity prices. The Firm uses a number of standard scenarios that capture different risk factors across asset classes including geographical factors, specific idiosyncratic factors and extreme tail events. The stress framework calculates multiple magnitudes of potential stress for both market rallies and market sell-offs for each risk factor and combines them in multiple ways to capture different market scenarios. For example, certain scenarios assess the potential loss arising from current exposures held by the Firm due to a broad sell off in bond markets or an extreme widening in corporate credit spreads. The flexibility of the &nbsp;stress testing framework allows risk managers to construct new, specific scenarios that can be used to form decisions about future possible stress events.Stress testing complements VaR by allowing risk managersto shock current market prices to more extreme levels relative to those historically realized, and to stress test the relationships between market prices under extreme scenarios. Stress-test results, trends and qualitative explanations based on current market risk positions are reported to the respective LOB's and the Firm's senior management to allow them to better understand the sensitivity of positions to certain defined events and to enable them to manage their risks with more transparency. In addition, results are reported to the Board of Directors.Stress scenarios are defined and reviewed by Market Risk, and significant changes are reviewed by the relevant LOB Risk Committees and may be redefined on a periodic basis to reflect current market conditions. The Firm's stress testing framework is utilized in calculating results under scenarios mandated by the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (&#8220;CCAR&#8221;) and Management's discussion and analysisInternal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (&#8220;ICAAP&#8221;)processes. In addition, the results are incorporated into the quarterly assessment of the Firm's Risk Appetite Framework and are also presented to the DRPC.Nonstatistical risk measures Nonstatistical risk measures include sensitivities to variables used to value positions, such as credit spread sensitivities, interest rate basis point values and market values. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line of business and by risk type, and are also used for monitoring internal market risk limits.Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns are tools used to highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk tolerance. Profit and loss drawdowns are defined as the decline in net profit and loss since the year-to-date peak revenue level.Earnings-at-risk The VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the economic sensitivity of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm's reported net income is also important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm's significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only from trading activities but also from the Firm's traditional banking activities, which include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt. The Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk exposure through earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which changes in interest rates will affect the Firm's net interest income and interest rate-sensitive fees. Earnings-at-risk excludes the impact of CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs, as these sensitivities are captured under VaR.The CIO, Treasury and Corporate (&#8220;CTC&#8221;) Risk Committee establishes the Firm's structural interest rate risk policies and market risk limits, which are subject to approval by the DRPC. The CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, calculates the Firm's structural interest rate risk profile and reviews it with senior management including the CTC Risk Committee and the Firm's ALCO. In addition, oversight of structural interest rate risk is managed through a dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC CRO. This risk function is responsible for providing independent oversight and governance around assumptions and establishing and monitoring limits for structural interest rate risk. The Firm manages structural interest rate risk generally through its investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives.&nbsp;Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of factors, including:The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated, firmwide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury and CIO through a transfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.The Firm generates a net interest income baseline, and then conducts simulations of changes for interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollar and other currencies (&#8220;non-U.S. dollar&#8221; currencies). Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change in this net interest income baseline, excluding CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs, over the following 12 months, utilizing multiple assumptions. These scenarios may consider the impact on exposures as a result of changes in interest rates from baseline rates, as well as pricing sensitivities of deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The scenarios include forecasted balance sheet changes, as well as modeled prepayment and reinvestment behavior, but do not include assumptions about actions which could be taken by the Firm in response to any such instantaneous rate changes. For example, mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on current interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historical experience. The Firm's earnings-at-risk scenarios are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm's balance sheet, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm's simulation and other factors. Effective January 1, 2015, the Firm conducts earnings-at-risk simulations for assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars separately from assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies in order to enhance the Firm's ability to monitor structural interest rate risk from non-U.S. dollar exposures.The Firm's U.S. dollar sensitivity is presented in the table below. The result of the non-U.S. dollar sensitivity scenarios were not material to the Firm's earnings-at-risk at December 31, 2015.The Firm's benefit to rising rates on U.S. dollar assets and liabilities is largely a result of reinvesting at higher yields and assets repricing at a faster pace than deposits. The Firm's net U.S. dollar sensitivity profile at December 31, 2015 was not materially different than December 31, 2014.&#160;Separately, another U.S. dollar interest rate scenario used by the Firm &#8212; involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels &#8212; results in a 12-month pretax benefit to net interest income, excluding CIB's markets-based activities and MSRs, of approximately $700 million. The increase in net interest income under this scenario reflects the Firm reinvesting at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged. The result of the comparable non-U.S. dollar scenario was not material to the Firm.&nbsp;Non-U.S. dollar FX RiskNon-U.S. dollar FX risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates affect the value of the Firm's assets or liabilities or future results. The Firm has structural non-U.S. dollar FX exposures arising from capital investments, forecasted expense and revenue, the investment securities portfolio and issuing debt in denominations other than the U.S. dollar. Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, primarily manage these risks on behalf of the Firm.&#160;Treasury and CIO may hedge certain of these risks using derivatives within risk limits governed by the CTC Risk Committee.Management's discussion and analysisCountry risk is the risk that a sovereign event or action alters the value or terms of contractual obligations of obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects markets related to a particular country. The Firm has a comprehensive country risk management framework for assessing country risks, determining risk tolerance, and measuring and monitoring direct country exposures in the Firm. The Country Risk Management group is responsible for developing guidelines and policies for managing country risk in both emerging and developed countries. The Country Risk Management group actively monitors the various portfolios giving rise to country risk to ensure the Firm's country risk exposures are diversified and that exposure levels are appropriate given the Firm's strategy and risk tolerance relative to a country.Country risk organizationThe Country Risk Management group, part of the independent risk management function, works in close partnership with other risk functions to identify and monitor country risk within the Firm. The Firmwide Risk Executive for Country Risk reports to the Firm's CRO.Country Risk Management is responsible for the following functions:&nbsp;Country risk identification and measurementThe Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending, investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Country exposure includes activity with both government and private-sector entities in a country. Under the Firm's internal country risk management approach, country exposure is reported based on the country where the majority of the assets of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor are located or where the majority of its revenue is derived, which may be different than the domicile (legal residence) or country of incorporation of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor. Country exposures are generally measured by considering the Firm's risk to an immediate default of the counterparty or obligor, with zero recovery. Assumptions are sometimes required in determining the measurement and allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case of certain tranched credit derivatives. Different measurement approaches or assumptions would affect the amount of reported country exposure.Under the Firm's internal country risk measurement framework:The Firm also has indirect exposures to country risk (for example, related to the collateral received on securities financing receivables or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through the Firm's credit, market, and operational risk governance, rather than through Country Risk Management.The Firm's internal country risk reporting differs from the reporting provided under the FFIEC bank regulatory requirements. For further information on the FFIEC's reporting methodology, see Cross-border outstandings on page 327.Country risk stress testingThe country risk stress framework aims to identify potential losses arising from a country crisis by capturing the impact of large asset price movements in a country based on market shocks combined with counterparty specific assumptions. Country Risk Management periodically defines and runs ad hoc stress scenarios for individual countries in response to specific market events and sector performance concerns.Country risk monitoring and controlThe Country Risk Management group establishes guidelines for sovereign ratings reviews and limit management. Country stress and nominal exposures are measured under a comprehensive country limit framework. Country ratings and limits are actively monitored and reported on a regular basis. Country limit requirements are reviewed and approved by senior management as often as necessary, but at least annually. In addition, the Country Risk Management group uses surveillance tools, such as signaling models and ratings indicators, for early identification of potential country risk concerns.&nbsp;Country risk reportingThe following table presents the Firm's top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) as of December&#160;31, 2015. The selection of countries is based solely on the Firm's largest total exposures by country, based on the Firm's internal country risk management approach, and does not represent the Firm's view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period to period due to normal client activity and market flows.Model riskModel risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.The Firm uses models for many purposes including the valuation of positions and the measurement of risk. Valuation models are employed by the Firm to value certain financial instruments for which quoted prices may not be readily available. Valuation models may be employed as inputs into risk measurement models including VaR, regulatory capital, estimation of stress loss and the allowance for credit losses.Models are owned by various functions within the Firm based on the specific purposes of such models. For example, VaR models and certain regulatory capital models are owned by the line of business-aligned risk management functions. Owners of models are responsible for the development, implementation and testing of their models, as well as referral of models to the Model Risk function for review and approval. Once models have been approved, model owners are responsible for the maintenance of a robust operating environment and must monitor and evaluate the performance of the models on an ongoing basis. Model owners may seek to enhance models in response to changes in the portfolios and in product and market developments, as well as to capture improvements in available modeling techniques and systems capabilities.The Model Risk review and governance functions review and approve a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation, and regulatory capital models used by the Firm. Independent of the model owners, the Model Risk review and governance functions are part of the Firm's Model Risk unit, and the Firmwide Model Risk Executive reports to the Firm's CRO.&nbsp;Models are tiered based on an internal standard according to their complexity, the exposure associated with the model and the Firm's reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the approval of the Model Risk function. A model review conducted by the Model Risk function considers the model's suitability for the specific uses to which it will be put. The factors considered in reviewing a model include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of the product and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of model inputs, consistency with models for similar products, the appropriateness of any model-related adjustments, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the market. When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness of model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, including back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are approved by the appropriate level of management within the Model Risk function based on the relevant tier of the model.Under the Firm's Model Risk Policy, the Model Risk function reviews and approves new models, as well as material changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head of the Model Risk function may grant exceptions to the Firm's model risk policy to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The Model Risk function may also require the owner to take appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions will depend on the model and may include, for example, limitation of trading activity.For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm and Note 3.Principal investments are predominantly privately-held financial assets and instruments, typically representing an ownership or junior capital position, that have unique risks due to their illiquidity or for which there is less observable market or valuation data. Such investing activities are typically intended to be held over extended investment periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no expectation for short-term gain with respect to these investments. Principal investments cover multiple asset classes and are made either in stand-alone investing businesses or as part of a broader business platform. Asset classes include tax-oriented investments (e.g., affordable housing and alternative energy investments), private equity and various debt investments.&nbsp;The Firm's principal investments are managed under various lines of business and are captured within the respective LOB's financial results. The Firm's approach to managing principal risk is consistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk policy framework exists for all principal investing activities. All investments are approved by investment committees that include executives who are independent from the investing businesses. The Firm's independent control functions are responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying value of principal investments in accordance with relevant policies. Approved levels for such investments are established for each relevant business in order to manage the overall size of the portfolios. Industry, geographic, and position level concentration limits are in place and are intended to ensure diversification of the portfolios. The Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios using specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant market moves and/or other risk events. Management's discussion and analysisOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events that are neither market- nor credit-related. Operational risk is inherent in the Firm's activities and&#32;can manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure of vendors to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as other damage to the Firm. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject.OverviewTo monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains an Operational Risk Management Framework (&#8220;ORMF&#8221;) designed to enable the Firm to maintain a sound and well-controlled operational environment. The four main components of the ORMF include: governance, risk identification and assessment, monitoring and reporting, and measurement.Risk Management is responsible for prescribing the ORMF to the lines of business and corporate functions and for providing independent oversight of its implementation. The lines of business and corporate functions are responsible for implementing the ORMF. The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group (&#8220;O&C&#8221;), which consists of dedicated control officers within each of the lines of business and corporate functional areas, as well as a central oversight team, is responsible for day to day execution of the ORMF.Operational risk management frameworkThe components of the Operational Risk Management Framework are:GovernanceThe Firm's operational risk governance function reports to the Firm's CRO and is responsible for defining the ORMF and establishing the firmwide operational risk management governance structure, policies and standards. The Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance, a direct report of the CRO, works with the line of business CROs to provide independent oversight of the implementation of the ORMF across the Firm. Operational Risk Officers (&#8220;OROs&#8221;), who report to the LOB Chief Risk Officers or to the Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance, are independent of the lines of business and corporate functions, and O&C. The OROs provide oversight of the implementation of the ORMF within in each line of business and corporate function.&nbsp;Line of business, corporate function and regional control committees oversee the operational risk and control environments of their respective businesses, functions or regions. These committees escalate operational risk issues to the FCC, as appropriate. For additional information on the Firmwide Control Committee, see Enterprise Risk Management on pages 107&#8211;111.Risk Identification and Self-AssessmentIn order to evaluate and monitor operational risk, the lines of business and corporate functions utilize several processes to identify, assess, mitigate and manage operational risk. Firmwide standards are in place for each of these processes and set the minimum requirements for how they must be applied.The Firm's risk and control self-assessment (&#8220;RCSA&#8221;) process and supporting architecture requires management to identify material inherent operational risks, assess the design and operating effectiveness of relevant controls in place to mitigate such risks, and evaluate residual risk. Action plans are developed for control issues that are identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving issues on a timely basis. Risk Management performs an independent challenge of the RCSA program including residual risk results.The Firm also tracks and monitors operational risk events which are analyzed by the responsible businesses and corporate functions. This enables identification of the root causes of the operational risk events and evaluation of the associated controls.Furthermore, lines of business and corporate functions establish key risk indicators to manage and monitor operational risk and the control environment. These assist in the early detection and timely escalation of issues or events.Risk monitoring and reportingOperational risk management and control reports provide information, including actual operational loss levels, self-assessment results and the status of issue resolution to the lines of business and senior management. In addition, key control indicators and operating metrics are monitored against targets and thresholds. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and functions.MeasurementTwo standard forms of operational risk measurement include operational risk capital and operational risk losses under baseline and stressed conditions.The Firm's operational risk capital methodology incorporates the four required elements of the Advanced Measurement Approach under the Basel III framework:The primary component of the operational risk capital estimate is the result of a statistical model, the Loss Distribution Approach (&#8220;LDA&#8221;), which simulates the frequency and severity of future operational risk losses based on historical data. The LDA model is used to estimate an aggregate operational risk loss over a one-year time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. The LDA model incorporates actual internal operational risk losses in the quarter following the period in which those losses were realized, and the calculation generally continues to reflect such losses even after the issues or business activities giving rise to the losses have been remediated or reduced.The calculation is supplemented by external loss data as needed, as well as both management's view of plausible tail risk, which is captured as part of the Scenario Analysis process, and evaluation of key LOB internal control metrics (BEICF). The Firm may further supplement such analysis to incorporate feedback from its bank regulators.The Firm considers the impact of stressed economic conditions on operational risk losses and a forward looking view of material operational risk events that may occur in a stressed environment. The Firm's operational risk stress testing framework is utilized in calculating results for the Firm's CCAR, ICAAP and Risk Appetite processes.For information related to operational risk RWA, CCAR or ICAAP, see Capital Management section, pages 149&#8211;158.InsuranceOne of the ways operational loss may be mitigated is through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and regulations (e.g., workers compensation), as well as to serve other needs (e.g., property loss and public liability). Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.CybersecurityThe Firm devotes significant resources maintaining and regularly updating its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the Firm's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets against attempts by unauthorized parties to obtain access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. &nbsp;Third parties with which the Firm does business or that facilitate the Firm's business activities (e.g., vendors, exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and financial intermediaries) could also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, misconduct by the employees of such parties, or cyberattacks which could affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Firm or result in lost or compromised information of the Firm or its clients. In addition, customers with which or whom the Firm does business can also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly when their activities and systems are beyond the Firm's own security and control systems. Customers will generally be responsible for losses incurred due to their own failure to maintain the security of their own systems and processes.The Firm and several other U.S. financial institutions have experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced unauthorized parties which are intended to disrupt online banking services. The Firm and its clients are also regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious code and viruses. On September 10, 2014, the Firm disclosed that a cyberattack against the Firm had occurred. The cyberattacks experienced to date have not resulted in any material disruption to the Firm's operations nor have they had a material adverse effect on the Firm's results of operations. The Firm's Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are regularly apprised regarding the cybersecurity policies and practices of the Firm as well as the Firm's efforts regarding significant cybersecurity events.Cybersecurity attacks, like the one experienced by the Firm, highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation among businesses and the government, and the Firm continues to work to strengthen its partnerships with the appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and other businesses, including the Firm's third-party service providers, in order to understand the full spectrum of cybersecurity risks in the environment, enhance defenses and improve resiliency against cybersecurity threats.The Firm has established, and continues to establish, defenses to mitigate other possible future attacks. To enhance its defense capabilities, the Firm increased cybersecurity spending from approximately $250 million in 2014, to approximately $500 million in 2015, and expects the spending to increase to more than $600 million in 2016. Enhancements include more robust testing, advanced analytics, improved technology coverage, strengthened access management and controls and a program to increase employee awareness about cybersecurity risks and best practices.Business and technology resiliencyJPMorgan Chase's global resiliency and crisis management program is intended to ensure that the Firm has the ability to recover its critical business functions and supporting assets (i.e., staff, technology and facilities) in the event of a Management's discussion and analysisbusiness interruption, and to remain in compliance with global laws and regulations as they relate to resiliency risk. The program includes corporate governance, awareness and training, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives aimed to ensure that risks are properly identified, assessed, and managed.The Firm has established comprehensive tracking and reporting of resiliency plans in order to proactively anticipate and manage various potential disruptive circumstances such as severe weather and flooding, technology and communications outages, cyber incidents, mass transit shutdowns and terrorist threats, among others. The resiliency measures utilized by the Firm include backup infrastructure for data centers, a geographically distributed workforce, dedicated recovery facilities, providing technological capabilities to support remote work capacity for displaced staff and accommodation of employees at alternate locations. JPMorgan Chase continues to coordinate its global resiliency program across the Firm and mitigate business continuity risks by reviewing and testing recovery procedures. The strength and proficiency of the Firm's global resiliency program has played an integral role in maintaining the Firm's business operations during and quickly after various events in 2015 that have resulted in business interruptions, such as severe winter weather and flooding in the U.S. and various global protest-related activities.&nbsp;Legal risk is the risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, penalties or other liability arising from failure to comply with a contractual obligation or to comply with laws or regulations to which the Firm is subject.OverviewIn addition to providing legal services and advice to the Firm, and communicating and helping the lines of business adjust to the legal and regulatory changes they face, including the heightened scrutiny and expectations of the Firm's regulators, the global Legal function is responsible for working with the businesses and corporate functions to fully understand and assess their adherence to laws and regulations. In particular, Legal assists Oversight & Control, Risk, Finance, Compliance and Internal Audit in their efforts to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the Firm's corporate standards for doing business. The Firm's lawyers also advise the Firm on potential legal exposures on key litigation and transactional matters, and perform a significant defense and advocacy role by defending the Firm against claims and potential claims and, when needed, pursuing claims against others. Governance and oversightThe Firm's General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a member of the Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk Committee and the Firmwide Control Committee. The General Counsel's leadership team includes a General Counsel for each line of business, the heads of the Litigation and Corporate & Regulatory practices, as well as the Firm's Corporate Secretary. Each region (e.g., Latin America, Asia Pacific) has a General Counsel who is responsible for managing legal risk across all lines of business and functions in the region.Legal works with various committees (including new business initiative and reputation risk committees) and the Firm's businesses to protect the Firm's reputation beyond any particular legal requirements. In addition, it advises the Firm's Conflicts Office which reviews the Firm's wholesale transactions that may have the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm.Compliance risk is the risk of failure to comply with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. OverviewEach line of business is accountable for managing its compliance risk. The Firm's Compliance Organization (&#8220;Compliance&#8221;), which is independent of the lines of business, works closely with the Operating Committee and management to provide independent review, monitoring and oversight of business operations with a focus on compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations applicable to the offering of the Firm's products and services to clients and customers.These compliance risks relate to a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations, depending on the line of business and the jurisdiction, and include those related to products and services, relationships and interactions with clients and customers, and employee activities. For example, one compliance risk, fiduciary risk, is the failure to exercise the applicable high standard of care, to act in the best interests of clients or to treat clients fairly, as required under applicable law or regulation. Other specific compliance risks include those associated with anti-money laundering compliance, trading activities, market conduct, and complying with the rules and regulations related to the offering of products and services across jurisdictional borders, among others. Compliance implements various practices designed to identify and mitigate compliance risk by implementing policies, testing and monitoring, training and providing guidance.In recent years, the Firm has experienced heightened scrutiny by its regulators of its compliance with regulations, and with respect to its controls and operational processes. In certain instances, the Firm has entered into Consent Orders with its regulators requiring the Firm to take certain specified actions to remediate compliance with regulations and improve its controls. The Firm expects that such regulatory scrutiny will continue. &nbsp;Governance and oversightCompliance is led by the Firms' Chief Compliance Officer (&#8220;CCO&#8221;) who reports directly to the Firm's COO. The Firm maintains oversight and coordination in its Compliance Risk Management practices globally through the Firm's CCO, lines of business CCOs and regional CCOs to implement the Compliance program across the lines of business and regions. The Firm's CCO is a member of the Firmwide Control Committee and the Firmwide Risk Committee. The Firm's CCO also provides regular updates to the Audit Committee and DRPC. In addition, from time to time, special committees of the Board have been established to oversee the Firm's compliance with regulatory Consent Orders. The Firm has in place a Code of Conduct (the &#8220;Code&#8221;), and each employee is given annual training in respect of the Code and is required annually to affirm his or her compliance with the Code. The Code sets forth the Firm's core principles and fundamental values, including that no employee should ever sacrifice integrity - or give the impression that he or she has. The Code requires prompt reporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation applicable to the Firm's business. It also requires the reporting of any illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the underlying principles of the Code, by any of the Firm's employees, customers, suppliers, contract workers, business partners, or agents. Specified employees are specially trained and designated as &#8220;code specialists&#8221; who act as a resource to employees on Code of Conduct matters. In addition, concerns may be reported anonymously and the Firm prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith reporting of any actual or suspected violations of the Code. The Code and the associated employee compliance program are focused on the regular assessment of certain key aspects of the Firm's culture and conduct initiatives.&#160;Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the Firm's integrity or competence by our various constituents, including clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees and the broader public. Maintaining the Firm's reputation is the responsibility of each individual employee of the Firm. The Firm's Reputation Risk Governance policy explicitly vests each employee with the responsibility to consider the reputation of the Firm when engaging in any activity. Since the types of events that could harm the Firm's reputation are so varied across the Firm's lines of business, each line of business has a separate reputation risk governance infrastructure in place, which consists of three key elements: clear, documented escalation criteria appropriate to the business; a designated primary discussion forum &#8212; in most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk committees; and a list of designated contacts, to whom questions relating to reputation risk should be referred. Line of business reputation risk governance is overseen by a Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance function, which provides oversight of the governance infrastructure and process to support the consistent identification, escalation, management and reporting of reputation risk issues firmwide.Capital risk is the risk the Firm has an insufficient level and composition of capital to support the Firm's business activities and associated risks during normal economic environments and stressed conditions.A strong capital position is essential to the Firm's business strategy and competitive position. The Firm's capital strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables the Firm to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Prior to making any decisions on future business activities, senior management considers the implications on the Firm's capital. In addition to considering the Firm's earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all sources and uses of capital with a view to preserving the Firm's capital strength. Maintaining a strong balance sheet to manage through economic volatility is considered a strategic imperative by the Firm's Board of Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The Firm's balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted returns, strong capital and reserves, and robust liquidity.&nbsp;The Firm's capital management objectives are to hold capital sufficient to:These objectives are achieved through ongoing monitoring and management of the Firm's capital position, regular stress testing, and a capital governance framework. Capital management is intended to be flexible in order to react to a range of potential events. JPMorgan Chase has firmwide and LOB processes for ongoing monitoring and active management of its capital position. Management's discussion and analysisThe following tables present the Firm's Transitional and Fully Phased-In risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics under both Basel III Standardized and Advanced approaches. The Firm's Basel III CET1 ratio exceeds the regulatory minimum as of December 31, 2015. For further discussion of these capital metrics and the Standardized and Advanced approaches refer to Monitoring and management of capital on pages 151&#8211;155. Note: As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the lower of the Standardized or Advanced capital ratios under each of the transitional and fully phased in approaches in the table above represents the Firm's Collins Floor, as discussed in Monitoring and management of Capital on page 151. Strategy and governanceThe Firm's CEO, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, establishes principles and guidelines for capital planning, issuance, usage and distributions, and establishes capital targets for the level and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and highly stressed environments.The Firm's senior management recognizes the importance of a capital management function that supports strategic decision-making. The Capital Governance Committee and the Regulatory Capital Management Office (&#8220;RCMO&#8221;) are key components in support of this objective. The Capital Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Capital Management Policy and the principles underlying capital issuance and distribution alternatives. The Committee is also responsible for governing the capital adequacy assessment process, including overall design, assumptions and risk streams, and ensuring that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the idiosyncratic risks across the Firm's businesses. RCMO, which reports to the Firm's CFO, is responsible for reviewing, approving and monitoring the implementation of the Firm's capital policies and strategies, as well as its capital adequacy assessment process. The review assesses the effectiveness of the capital adequacy process, the appropriateness of the risk tolerance levels, and the strength of the control infrastructure. The DRPC oversees the Firm's capital adequacy process and its components. The Basel Independent Review function (&#8220;BIR&#8221;), which reports to the RCMO and the Capital Governance Committee, conducts independent assessments of the Firm's regulatory capital framework to ensure compliance with the applicable U.S. Basel rules in support of the DRPC's and senior management's oversight of the Firm's capital processes. For additional discussion on the DRPC, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 107&#8211;111.Monitoring and management of capital In its monitoring and management of capital, the Firm takes into consideration an assessment of economic risk and all regulatory capital requirements to determine the level of capital needed to meet and maintain the objectives discussed above, as well as to support the framework for allocating capital to its business segments.&#160;While economic risk is considered prior to making decisions on future business activities, in most cases, the Firm considers risk-based regulatory capital to be a proxy for economic risk capital.Regulatory capital The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar minimum capital requirements for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A. The U.S. capital requirements generally follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, as amended from time to time. Prior to January 1, 2014, the Firm and its banking subsidiaries were subject to the capital requirements of Basel I and Basel 2.5. Effective January 1, 2014, the Firm became subject to Basel III (which incorporates Basel 2.5).&nbsp;Basel III overviewBasel III capital rules, for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its insured depository institution (&#8220;IDI&#8221;) subsidiaries, revised, among other things, the definition of capital and introduced a new CET1 capital requirement. Basel III presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA, a general (Standardized) approach, which replaced Basel I RWA effective January 1, 2015 (&#8220;Basel III Standardized&#8221;) and an advanced approach, which replaced Basel II RWA (&#8220;Basel III Advanced&#8221;); and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 (&#8220;transitional period&#8221;). The capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries is evaluated against the Basel III approach (Standardized or Advanced) which results in the lower ratio (the &#8220;Collins Floor&#8221;), as required by the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act.Basel III establishes capital requirements for calculating credit risk and market risk RWA, and in the case of Basel III Advanced, operational risk RWA. Key differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced, both of which incorporate the requirements set forth in Basel 2.5. In addition to the RWA calculated under these methodologies, the Firm may supplement such amounts to incorporate management judgment and feedback from its bank regulators.Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate a Supplementary Leverage Ratio (&#8220;SLR&#8221;). For additional information on SLR, see page 155. Basel III Fully Phased-InBasel III capital rules will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, at which point the Firm will continue to calculate its capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches. While the Firm has imposed Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA limits on its lines of business, the Firm continues to manage each of the businesses (including line of business equity allocations), as well as the corporate functions, primarily on a Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In basis.The Firm's capital, RWA and capital ratios that are presented under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In rules and the Firm's and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s SLRs calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules are non-GAAP financial measures. However, such measures are used by banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess the Management's discussion and analysisFirm's capital position and to compare the Firm's capital to that of other financial services companies.The Firm's estimates of its Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In capital, RWA and capital ratios and of the Firm's, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s, and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s SLRs reflect management's current understanding of the U.S. Basel III rules based on the current published rules and on the application of such rules to the Firm's businesses as currently conducted. The actual &nbsp;impact on the Firm's capital ratios and SLR as of the effective date of the rules may differ from the Firm's current estimates depending on changes the Firm may make to its businesses in the future, further implementation guidance from the regulators, and regulatory approval of certain of the Firm's internal risk models (or, alternatively, regulatory disapproval of the Firm's internal risk models&#160;that have previously been conditionally approved).Risk-based capital regulatory minimumsThe following chart presents the Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the transitional periods and on a fully phased-in basis under the Basel III rules currently in effect. At December&#160;31, 2015 and 2014, JPMorgan Chase maintained Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional capital ratios in excess of the well-capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve. Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios, as well as the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which the Firm is subject, is presented in Note 28. For further information on the Firm's Basel III measures, see the Firm's Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).All banking institutions are currently required to have a minimum capital ratio of 4.5% of CET1 capital. Certain banking organizations, including the Firm, will be required to hold additional amounts of capital to serve as a &#8220;capital conservation buffer.&#8221; The capital conservation buffer is intended to be used to absorb potential losses in times of financial or economic stress. If not maintained, the Firm could be limited in the amount of capital that may be distributed, including dividends and common equity repurchases. The capital conservation buffer is to be phased-in over time, beginning January 1, 2016 through January 1, 2019. &nbsp;When fully phased-in, the capital conservation buffer requires an additional 2.5% of CET1 capital, as well as additional levels of capital in the form of a GSIB surcharge and the recently implemented countercyclical capital buffer. On July 20, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule requiring GSIBs to calculate their GSIB surcharge, on an annual basis, under two separately prescribed methods, and to be subject to the higher of the two. The first method (&#8220;Method 1&#8221;) reflects the GSIB surcharge as prescribed by Basel rules, and is calculated across five criteria: size, cross-jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness, complexity and substitutability. The second method (&#8220;Method 2&#8221;) modifies the requirements to include a measure of short-term wholesale funding in place of substitutability, and introduces a GSIB score &#8220;multiplication factor.&#8221; Based upon data as of December 31, 2015, the Firm estimates its fully phased-in GSIB surcharge would be 2% of CET1 capital under Method 1 and 3.5% under Method 2. On July 20, 2015, the date of the last published estimate, the Federal Reserve had estimated the Firm's GSIB surcharge to be 2.5% under Method 1 and 4.5% under Method 2 as of December 31, 2014. The countercyclical capital buffer is a potential expansion of the capital conservation buffer that takes into account the macro financial environment in which large, internationally active banks function. As of December 31, 2015 the Federal Reserve reaffirmed setting the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer at 0%, and stated that it will review the amount at least annually. The countercyclical capital buffer can be increased if the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC determine that credit growth in the economy has become excessive and can be set at up to an additional 2.5% of RWA. On December 21, 2015, the Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the FDIC and OCC, requested public comment, due March 21, 2016, on a proposed policy statement detailing the framework that would be followed in setting the U.S. Basel III countercyclical capital buffer. Based on the Firm's most recent estimate of its GSIB surcharge and the current countercyclical buffer being set at 0%, the Firm estimates its fully phased-in capital conservation buffer would be 6%. As well as meeting the capital ratio requirements of Basel III, the Firm must, in order to be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221;, maintain a minimum 6% Tier 1 and a 10% Total capital requirement. Each of the Firm's IDI subsidiaries must maintain a minimum 5% Tier 1 leverage, 6.5% CET1, 8% Tier 1 and 10% Total capital standard to meet the definition of &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; under the Prompt Corrective Action (&#8220;PCA&#8221;) requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act(&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;) for IDI subsidiaries. The PCA standards for IDI subsidiaries were effective January 1, 2015.&nbsp;A reconciliation of total stockholders' equity to Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital is presented in the table below. Beginning July 21, 2015, the Volcker Rule provisions regarding the prohibitions against proprietary trading and holding ownership interests in or sponsoring &#8220;covered funds&#8221; became effective. The deduction from Basel III Tier 1 capital associated with the permissible holdings of covered funds acquired after December 31, 2013 was not material as of December 31, 2015.&#32;For additional information on the components of regulatory capital, see Note 28.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table presents a reconciliation of the Firm's Basel III Transitional CET1 capital to the Firm's estimated Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital as of December&#160;31, 2015.&nbsp;Capital rollforwardThe following table presents the changes in Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015.RWA rollforwardThe following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In for the year ended December 31, 2015. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the change.Supplementary leverage ratioThe SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by the Firm's total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is calculated by taking the Firm's total average on-balance sheet assets, less amounts permitted to be deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivatives potential future exposure.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a final rule for the calculation of the SLR. The U.S. final rule requires public disclosure of the SLR beginning with the first quarter of 2015, and also requires U.S. bank holding companies, including the Firm, to have a minimum SLR of 5% and IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A., to have a minimum SLR of 6%, both beginning January 1, 2018. As of December 31, 2015, the Firm estimates that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s Fully Phased-In SLRs are approximately 6.6% and 8.3%, respectively. The following table presents the components of the Firm's Fully Phased-In SLR, a non-GAAP financial measure, as of December 31, 2015.&nbsp;Planning and stress testingComprehensive Capital Analysis and ReviewThe Federal Reserve requires large bank holding companies, including the Firm, to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act stress test processes to ensure that large bank holding companies have sufficient capital during periods of economic and financial stress, and have robust, forward-looking capital assessment and planning processes in place that address each bank holding company's (&#8220;BHC&#8221;) unique risks to enable them to have the ability to absorb losses under certain stress scenarios. Through the CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates each BHC's capital adequacy and internal capital adequacy assessment processes, as well as its plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.On March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm that it did not object, on either a quantitative or qualitative basis, to the Firm's 2015 capital plan. For information on actions taken by the Firm's Board of Directors following the 2015 CCAR results, see Capital actions on page 157.For 2016, the Federal Reserve revised the capital plan cycle for the CCAR process. Under the revised time line, the Firm is required to submit its 2016 capital plan to the Federal Reserve by April 5, 2016. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it expects to respond to the capital plan submissions of bank holding companies by June 30, 2016.The Firm's CCAR process is integrated into and employs the same methodologies utilized in the Firm's ICAAP process, as discussed below.Management's discussion and analysisInternal Capital Adequacy Assessment ProcessSemiannually, the Firm completes the ICAAP, which provides management with a view of the impact of severe and unexpected events on earnings, balance sheet positions, reserves and capital. The Firm's ICAAP integrates stress testing protocols with capital planning.The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on the Firm's earnings and capital. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly across the businesses. These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, which are key drivers of business results; global market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading losses; and idiosyncratic operational risk events. The scenarios are intended to capture and stress key vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks facing the Firm. However, when defining a broad range of scenarios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, management considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. ICAAP results are reviewed by management and the Board of Directors.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital to its business segments (line of business equity) is based on the following objectives:Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In) and economic risk. Capital is also allocated to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as key measures of a business segment's performance.On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital. The line of business equity allocations are updated as refinements are implemented. The table below reflects the Firm's assessed level of capital required for each line of business as of the dates indicated. &nbsp;Other capital requirementsMinimum Total Loss Absorbing Capacity In November 2015, the Financial Stability Board (&#8220;FSB&#8221;) finalized the TLAC standard for GSIBs, which establishes the criteria for TLAC eligible debt and capital instruments and defines the minimum requirements for amounts of loss absorbing and recapitalization capacity. This amount and type of debt and capital instruments is intended to effectively absorb losses, as necessary, upon the failure of a GSIB, without imposing such losses on taxpayers of the relevant jurisdiction or causing severe systemic disruptions, and thereby ensuring the continuity of&#160;the GSIB's critical functions. The final standard will require GSIBs to meet a common minimum TLAC requirement of 16% of the financial institution's RWA, effective January 1, 2019, and at least 18% effective January 1, 2022. The minimum TLAC must also be at least 6% of a financial institution's Basel III leverage ratio denominator, effective January 1, 2019, and at least 6.75% effective January 1, 2022.On October 30, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules that would require the top-tier holding companies of eight U.S. global systemically important bank holding companies, including the Firm, among other things, to maintain minimum levels of eligible TLAC and long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria (&#8220;eligible LTD&#8221;) commencing January 1, 2019. Under the proposal, these eight U.S GSIBs &#160;would be required to maintain minimum&#160;TLAC of no less than 18% of the financial institution's RWA or 9.5% of its leverage exposure (as defined by the rules), plus in the case of the RWA-based measure,&#160;a TLAC buffer that is equal to 2.5% of the financial institution's CET1, any applicable countercyclical buffer and the financial institution's GSIB surcharge as calculated under method 1. The minimum level of eligible LTD that would be required to be maintained by these eight U.S. GSIBs would be equal to the greater of (A) 6% of the financial institution's RWA, plus the higher of the method 1 or method 2 GSIB surcharge applicable to the institution and (B) 4.5% of its leverage exposure (as defined by the rules). These proposed TLAC Rules would disqualify from eligible LTD, among other instruments, senior debt securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or payment default, as well as structured notes and debt securities not governed by U.S. law. The Firm is currently evaluating the impact of the proposal.Capital actionsDividends The Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desired dividend payout ratio, capital objectives, and alternative investment opportunities.Following receipt on March 11, 2015, of the Federal Reserve's non-objection to the Firm's 2015 capital plan submitted under its CCAR, the Firm announced that its Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.44 per share, effective with the dividend paid on July 31, 2015. The Firm's dividends are subject to the Board of Directors' approval at the customary times those dividends are declared.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 22 and Note 27.The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on reported net income.Common equity During the year ended December 31, 2015, warrant holders exercised their right to purchase 12.4 million shares of the Firm's common stock. The Firm issued 4.7 million shares of its common stock as a result of these exercises. As of December 31, 2015, 47.4 million warrants remained outstanding, compared with 59.8 million outstanding as of December 31, 2014.On March&#160;11, 2015, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve's release of its 2015 CCAR results, the Firm's Board of Directors authorized a $6.4 billion&#32;common equity (i.e., common stock and warrants) repurchase program. As of December&#160;31, 2015, $2.7 billion&#32;(on a settlement-date basis) of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the program. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's equity-based compensation plans.The following table sets forth the Firm's repurchases of common equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, on a settlement-date basis. There were no warrants repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity &#8212; for example, during internal trading &#8220;blackout periods.&#8221; All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established &nbsp;when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at management's discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilize Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities on page 20.Preferred stock During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Firm issued $6.0 billion of noncumulative preferred stock. Preferred stock dividends declared were $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015. Assuming all preferred stock issuances were outstanding for the entire year and quarterly dividends were declared on such issuances, preferred stock dividends would have been $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015. For additional information on the Firm's preferred stock, see Note 22.Redemption of outstanding trust preferred securitiesOn April 2, 2015, the Firm redeemed $1.5 billion, or 100% of the liquidation amount, of JPMorgan Chase Capital XXIX trust preferred securities. On May 8, 2013, the Firm redeemed approximately $5.0&#160;billion, or 100% of the liquidation amount, of the following eight series of trust preferred securities: JPMorgan Chase Capital X, XI, XII, XIV, XVI, XIX, XXIV, and BANK ONE Capital VI. For a further discussion of trust preferred securities, see Note 21.Management's discussion and analysisBroker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. (&#8220;JPMorgan Clearing&#8221;). JPMorgan&#160;Clearing is a subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities and provides clearing and settlement services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Net Capital Rule&#8221;). JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are also each registered as futures commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;).JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with the &#8220;Alternative Net Capital Requirements&#8221; of the Net Capital Rule. At December 31, 2015, JPMorgan&#160;Securities' net capital, as defined by the Net Capital Rule, was $14.2 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $11.9 billion, and JPMorgan Clearing's net capital was $7.7 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $6.2 billion.In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0&#160;billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 31, 2015, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements.J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#160;and is the Firm's principal operating subsidiary in&#160;the U.K. It has authority to engage in banking,&#160;investment banking and broker-dealer activities. J.P.&#160;Morgan&#160;Securities&#160;plc is jointly regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (&#8220;PRA&#8221;) and Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;). Commencing January 1, 2014, J.P. Morgan Securities plc became subject to the U.K. Basel III capital rules.At December 31, 2015, J.P. Morgan Securities plc had estimated total capital of $33.9 billion; its estimated CET1 capital ratio was 15.4% and its estimated Total capital ratio was 19.6%. Both capital ratios exceeded the minimum standards of 4.5% and 8.0%, respectively, under the transitional requirements of the European Union's (&#8220;EU&#8221;) Basel III Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation, as well as the additional capital requirements specified by the PRA.Liquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its contractual and contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of funding and liquidity to support its assets.Liquidity risk oversightThe Firm has a liquidity risk oversight function whose primary objective is to provide assessment, measurement, monitoring, and control of liquidity risk across the Firm. Liquidity risk oversight is managed through a dedicated firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight group. The CTC CRO, as part of the independent risk management function, has responsibility for firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight. Liquidity Risk Oversight's responsibilities include but are not limited to:Risk governance and measurementSpecific committees responsible for liquidity governance include firmwide ALCO as well as line of business and regional ALCOs, and the CTC Risk Committee. For further discussion of the risk and risk-related committees, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 107&#8211;111.Internal Stress testingLiquidity stress tests are intended to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Firm under a variety of adverse scenarios. Results of stress tests are therefore considered in the formulation of the Firm's funding plan and assessment of its liquidity position. Liquidity outflow assumptions are modeled across a range of time horizons and contemplate both market and idiosyncratic stress. Standard stress tests are performed on a regular basis and ad hoc stress tests are performed in response to specific market events or concerns. Stress scenarios are produced for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;Parent Company&#8221;) and the Firm's major subsidiaries.Liquidity stress tests assume all of the Firm's contractual obligations are met and then take into consideration varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding markets. Additionally, assumptions with respect to potential non-contractual and contingent outflows are contemplated.&nbsp;Liquidity managementTreasury is responsible for liquidity management. The primary objectives of effective liquidity management are to ensure that the Firm's core businesses are able to operate in support of client needs, meet contractual and contingent obligations through normal economic cycles as well as during stress events, and to manage optimal funding mix, and availability of liquidity sources. The Firm manages liquidity and funding using a centralized, global approach in order to optimize liquidity sources and uses.In the context of the Firm's liquidity management, Treasury is responsible for:Contingency funding planThe Firm's contingency funding plan (&#8220;CFP&#8221;), which is reviewed by ALCO and approved by the DRPC, is a compilation of procedures and action plans for managing liquidity through stress events. The CFP incorporates the limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk Oversight group. These limits and indicators are reviewed regularly to identify the emergence of risks or vulnerabilities in the Firm's liquidity position. The CFP identifies the alternative contingent liquidity resources available to the Firm in a stress event.Parent Company and subsidiary fundingThe Parent Company acts as a source of funding to its subsidiaries. The Firm's liquidity management is intended to maintain liquidity at the Parent Company, in addition to funding and liquidity raised at the subsidiary operating level, at levels sufficient to fund the operations of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries for an extended period of time in a stress environment where access to normal funding sources is disrupted. The Parent Company currently holds sufficient liquidity to withstand peak outflows over a one year liquidity stress horizon, assuming no access to wholesale funding markets.Management's discussion and analysisLCR and NSFRThe Firm must comply with the U.S. LCR rule, which is intended to measure the amount of HQLA held by the Firm in relation to estimated net cash outflows within a 30-day period during an acute stress event. The LCR is required to be 80% at January 1, 2015, increasing by 10% each year until reaching the 100% minimum by January 1, 2017. At December 31, 2015, the Firm was compliant with the fully phased-in U.S. LCR. On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee issued the final standard for the net stable funding ratio (&#8220;NSFR&#8221;) &#8212; which is intended to measure the &#8220;available&#8221; amount of stable funding relative to the &#8220;required&#8221; amount of stable funding over a one-year horizon. NSFR will become a minimum standard by January 1, 2018 and requires that this ratio be equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis. At December 31, 2015, the Firm was compliant with the NSFR based on its current understanding of the final Basel rule. The U.S. banking regulators are expected to issue an NPR that would outline requirements specific to U.S. banks.HQLAHQLA is the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the U.S. LCR. HQLA primarily consists of cash and certain unencumbered high quality liquid assets as defined in the final rule.As of December&#160;31, 2015, the Firm's HQLA was $496 billion, compared with $600 billion&#32;as of December 31, 2014. The decrease in HQLA was due to lower cash balances largely driven by lower non-operating deposit balances; however, the Firm remains LCR-compliant given the corresponding reduction in estimated net cash outflows associated with those deposits. HQLA may fluctuate from period to period primarily due to normal flows from client activity.The following table presents the estimated HQLA included in the LCR broken out by HQLA-eligible cash and securities as of December&#160;31, 2015.&nbsp;In addition to HQLA, as of December&#160;31, 2015, the Firm has approximately $249 billion&#32;of unencumbered marketable securities, such as equity securities and fixed income debt securities, available to raise liquidity, if required. Furthermore, the Firm maintains borrowing capacity at various Federal Home Loan Banks (&#8220;FHLBs&#8221;), the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central banks as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although available, the Firm does not view the borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and the various other central banks as a primary source of liquidity. As of December&#160;31, 2015, the Firm's remaining borrowing capacity at various FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Bank discount window was approximately $183 billion. This remaining borrowing capacity excludes the benefit of securities included above in HQLA or other unencumbered securities currently held at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window for which the Firm has not drawn liquidity.FundingSources of fundsManagement believes that the Firm's unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance sheet obligations.The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources of funding including a stable deposit franchise as well as secured and unsecured funding in the capital markets. The Firm's loan portfolio ($837.3 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015), is funded with a portion of the Firm's deposits ($1,279.7 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015) and&#160;through&#160;securitizations and, with respect to a portion of the Firm's real estate-related loans, with secured borrowings from the FHLBs.&#160;Deposits in excess of the amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or other short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and liquidity risk characteristics. Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets- debt and equity instruments are primarily funded by the Firm's securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, trading liabilities&#8211;debt and equity instruments, and a portion of the Firm's long-term debt and stockholders' equity. In addition to funding securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets-debt and&#32;equity instruments, proceeds from the Firm's debt and equity issuances are used to fund certain loans and other financial and non-financial assets, or may be invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio. See the discussion below for additional information relating to Deposits, Short-term funding, and Long-term funding and issuance.DepositsA key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through each of its lines of business, which provides a stable source of funding and limits reliance on the wholesale funding markets. As of December&#160;31, 2015, the Firm's loans-to-deposits ratio was 65%, compared with 56%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014.&nbsp;As of December&#160;31, 2015, total deposits for the Firm were $1,279.7 billion, compared with $1,363.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014 (61%&#32;and 58%&#32;of total liabilities at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively). The decrease was attributable to lower wholesale non-operating deposits, partially offset by higher consumer deposits. For further information, see Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 75&#8211;76.The Firm has typically experienced higher customer deposit inflows at quarter-ends. Therefore, the Firm believes average deposit balances are generally more representative of deposit trends. The table below summarizes, by line of business, the period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014.A significant portion of the Firm's deposits are consumer deposits, which are considered a stable source of liquidity. Additionally, the majority of the Firm's wholesale operating deposits are also considered to be stable sources of liquidity because they are generated from customers that maintain operating service relationships with the Firm. Wholesale non-operating deposits, including a portion of balances previously reported as commercial paper sweep liabilities, decreased by approximately $200 billion from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015, predominantly driven by the Firm's actions to reduce such deposits. The reduction has not had a significant impact on the Firm's liquidity position as discussed under LCR and HQLA above. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion of the Firm's business segments results and the Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 83&#8211;106&#32;and pages 75&#8211;76, respectively.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014, and average balances for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. For additional information, see the Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 75&#8211;76&#32;and Note 21.Short-term fundingDuring the third quarter of 2015 the Firm completed the discontinuation of its commercial paper customer sweep cash management program. This change has not had a significant impact on the Firm's liquidity as the majority of these customer funds remain as deposits at the Firm.The Firm's sources of short-term secured funding primarily consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are secured predominantly by high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS, and constitute a significant portion of the federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements on the Consolidated balance sheets. The decrease in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase at December&#160;31, 2015, compared with the balance at December 31, 2014 (as well as the average balances for the full year 2015, compared with the prior year) was due to a decline in secured financing of trading assets-debt and equity instruments in CIB. The balances associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers' investment and financing activities; the Firm's demand for financing; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm's liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for both the investment securities and market-making portfolios); and other market and portfolio factors.Long-term funding and issuanceLong-term funding provides additional sources of stable funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm's long-term funding plan is driven by expected client activity, liquidity considerations, and regulatory requirements. Long-term funding objectives include maintaining diversification, maximizing market access and optimizing funding costs, as well as maintaining a certain level of liquidity at the Parent Company. The Firm evaluates various funding markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term funding plan.The significant majority of the Firm's long-term unsecured funding is issued by the Parent Company to provide maximum flexibility in support of both bank and nonbank subsidiary funding. The following table summarizes long-term unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014. For additional information, see Note 21.&nbsp;The Firm raises secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the FHLBs. The following table summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemption for the years ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;and 2014. The Firm's wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. For further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, see Note 16.Management's discussion and analysisCredit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, the Firm's funding requirements for VIEs and other third party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline &nbsp;in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on page 77, and credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features in Note 6.The credit ratings of the Parent Company and the Firm's principal bank and nonbank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015, were as follows.Downgrades of the Firm's long-term ratings by one or two notches could result in an increase in its cost of funds, and access to certain funding markets could be reduced as noted above. The nature and magnitude of the impact of ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and&#32;behavioral factors (which the Firm believes are incorporated in its liquidity risk and stress testing metrics). The Firm believes that it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential decrease in funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.JPMorgan Chase's unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm's credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader ratings methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to changes in the Firm's credit ratings.&nbsp;In May 2015, Moody's published its new bank rating methodology. As part of this action, the Firm's preferred stock, deposits and bank subordinated debt ratings were upgraded by one notch. Additionally in May 2015, Fitch changed its bank ratings methodology, implementing ratings differentiation between bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries. This resulted in a one notch upgrade to the issuer ratings, senior debt ratings and long-term deposit ratings of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and certain other subsidiaries. In December 2015, S&P removed from its ratings for U.S. GSIBs the uplift assumption due to extraordinary government support. As a result, the Firm's short-term and long-term senior unsecured debt ratings and its subordinated unsecured debt ratings were lowered by one notch.Although the Firm closely monitors and endeavors to manage, to the extent it is able, factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that its credit ratings will not be changed in the future.JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established policies and control procedures intended to ensure that estimation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities and the related business and risk management strategies, which may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm's wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying value of the Firm's loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet date.The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component, a formula-based component, and a component related to PCI loans. The determination of each of these components involves significant judgment on a number of matters, as discussed below. For further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 15.Asset-specific componentThe asset-specific allowance for loan losses for each of the Firm's portfolio segments is generally measured as the difference between the recorded investment in the impaired loan and the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected, discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate. Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash flows is highly judgmental as these cash flow projections rely upon estimates such as redefault rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These estimates are, in turn, dependent on factors such as the level of future home prices, the duration of current overall economic conditions, and other macroeconomic and portfolio-specific factors. All of these estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.&nbsp;Formula-based component &#8212; Consumer loans and lending-related commitments, excluding PCI loansThe formula-based allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors to outstanding principal balances over an estimated loss emergence period to arrive at an estimate of incurred credit losses in the portfolio. The loss emergence period represents the time period between the date at which the loss is estimated to have been incurred and the ultimate realization of that loss (through a charge-off). Estimated loss emergence periods may vary by product and may change over time; management applies judgment in estimating loss emergence periods, using available credit information and trends. In addition, management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio category, using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate the total incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Management uses additional statistical methods and considers portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate.The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and current economic events that have occurred but that are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation; these adjustments are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. However, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, taking into account uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards, borrower behavior, the potential impact of payment recasts within the HELOC portfolio, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. In certain instances, the interrelationships between these factors create further uncertainties. For example, the performance of a HELOC that experiences a payment recast may be affected by both the quality of underwriting standards applied in originating the loan and the general economic conditions in effect at the time of the payment recast. For junior lien products, management considers the delinquency and/or modification status of any senior liens in determining the adjustment. The application of different inputs into the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by management to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to management judgment, and emphasizing one input or assumption over another, or considering other inputs or assumptions, could affect the estimate of the allowance for loan losses for the consumer credit portfolio.Management's discussion and analysisOverall, the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is sensitive to changes in the economic environment (e.g., unemployment rates), delinquency rates, the realizable value of collateral (e.g., housing prices), FICO scores, borrower behavior and other risk factors. While all of these factors are important determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in the various factors may not occur at the same time or at the same rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors would not necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity of losses or both.PCI loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain PCI loans, which are accounted for as described in Note 14. The allowance for loan losses for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly estimates of the amount of principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected over the estimated remaining lives of the loans.These cash flow projections are based on estimates regarding default rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These estimates are dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future home price declines, and the duration of current overall economic conditions, among other factors. These estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.Formula-based component &#8212; Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe Firm's methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments involves the early identification of credits that are deteriorating. The formula-based component of the allowance calculation for wholesale loans and lending-related components is the product of an estimated PD and estimated LGD. These factors are determined based on the credit quality and specific attributes of the Firm's loans and lending-related commitments to each obligor. The Firm assesses the credit quality of its borrower or counterparty and assigns a risk rating. Risk ratings are assigned at origination or acquisition, and if necessary, adjusted for changes in credit quality over the life of the exposure. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan or lending-related commitment, among the factors considered are the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an &nbsp;evaluation of historical and current information and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Determining risk ratings involves significant judgment; emphasizing one factor over another or considering additional factors could affect the risk rating assigned by the Firm.PD estimates are based on observable external through-the-cycle data, using credit rating agency default statistics. A LGD estimate is assigned to each loan or lending-related commitment. The estimate represents the amount of economic loss if the obligor were to default. The type of obligor, quality of collateral, and the seniority of the Firm's lending exposure in the obligor's capital structure affect LGD. LGD estimates are based on the Firm's history of actual credit losses over more than one credit cycle. Changes to the time period used for PD and LGD estimates (for example, point-in-time loss versus longer views of the credit cycle) could also affect the allowance for credit losses.The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD and LGD used in calculating the allowances. Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical loss experience in its models for estimating the allowances, but differences in characteristics between the Firm's specific loans or lending-related commitments and those reflected in external and Firm-specific historical data could affect loss estimates. Estimates of PD and LGD are subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. The use of different inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the modeled loss estimates, taking into consideration model imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both LGD and PD are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based on management's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.Allowance for credit losses sensitivityAs noted above, the Firm's allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors, which may differ depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the Firm's assumptions and estimates could affect its estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. The Firm uses its best judgment to assess these economic conditions and loss data in estimating the allowance for credit losses and these estimates are subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. In many cases, the use of alternate estimates (for example, the effect of home prices and unemployment rates on consumer delinquency, or the calibration between the Firm's wholesale loan risk ratings and external credit ratings) or data sources (for example, external PD and LGD factors that incorporate industry-wide information, versus Firm-specific history) would result in a different estimated allowance for credit losses. To illustrate the potential magnitude of certain alternate judgments, the Firm estimates that changes in the following inputs would have the following effects on the Firm's modeled loss estimates as of December&#160;31, 2015, without consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm's allowance for loan losses:The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to imply management's expectation of future deterioration of those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of these modeled loss estimates based on then-current circumstances and conditions.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses because management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, &nbsp;it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk factors related to its loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of the allowance for credit losses is appropriate.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including certain mortgage, home equity and other loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral.Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.Note: Effective April 1, 2015, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance for certain investments where the Firm measures fair value using the net asset value per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and has excluded these investments from the fair value hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.Management's discussion and analysisValuationDetails of the Firm's processes for determining fair value are set out in Note 3. Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, the lack of observability of certain significant inputs requires management to assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see Note 3.For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's credit-worthiness, market funding rates, liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. For further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Firm see Note 3.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios.The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or assumptions different than those used by the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm's valuation process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3.&nbsp;Goodwill impairmentUnder U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm's process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is described in Note 17.Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair value of its reporting units. Estimates of fair value are dependent upon estimates of (a) the future earnings potential of the Firm's reporting units, including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, (b) long-term growth rates and (c) the relevant cost of equity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can affect the estimated fair value of the reporting units.Based upon the updated valuations for all of its reporting units, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated to its reporting units was not impaired at December 31, 2015. The fair values of these reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately 10% - 180% for all reporting units and did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations.The goodwill of $101 million&#32;remaining as of December 31, 2014 associated with the Private Equity business was disposed of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in January 2015. For further information on the Private Equity sale, see Note 2.The projections for all of the Firm's reporting units are consistent with management's short-term business outlook assumptions, and in the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm's best estimates of long-term growth and returns on equity of its businesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark its assumptions and estimates.Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases in equity capital requirements, as well as deterioration in economic or market conditions, adverse estimates of regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.For additional information on goodwill, see Note 17.Income taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how to interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as well as make judgments regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.JPMorgan Chase's interpretations of tax laws around the world are subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records additional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations and tax planning strategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm's estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm's results of operations in any reporting period.The Firm's provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in connection with certain net operating losses (&#8220;NOLs&#8221;) and tax credits. The Firm performs regular reviews to ascertain whether its deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management's estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs before they expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined that a deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in a subsequent reporting period if the Firm determines that, based on revised estimates of future taxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not that all or part of the deferred tax asset will become realizable. As of December&#160;31, 2015, management has determined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net of the existing valuation allowance.&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase does not record U.S. federal income taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. Changes to the income tax rates applicable to these non-U.S. subsidiaries may have a material impact on the effective tax rate in a future period if such changes were to occur.The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when additional information becomes available. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on its effective income tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs.For additional information on income taxes, see Note 26.Litigation reservesFor a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves, see Note 31.Management's discussion and analysis(a) The guidance was required to be applied retrospectively and accordingly, certain prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.Management's discussion and analysisIn the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques, primarily based on internal models with significant observable market parameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015.&nbsp;The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at December&#160;31, 2015.<hr 
