 12Part IItem 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSOVERVIEW(a) Operating basis excludes the impact of credit card securitizations, restructuring costs and special items. For a further discussion, see Glossary of Terms on page 40.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.Chase's 1999 second quarter operating earnings of $1.35 billion, operatingdiluted earnings per share of $1.55 and return on equity of 24% were recordresults for Chase. Operating earnings and diluted earnings per share increased25% and 28%, respectively, from the second quarter of 1998. For the first sixmonths of 1999, operating earnings and diluted earnings per share rose 18% and21%, respectively, from the first six months of 1998.Reported diluted earnings per share were $1.60 in the 1999 second quarter, up33% from the same period in 1998. For the first half of 1999, reported dilutedearnings per share were $2.92, up 46% from the same prior year period. Reportednet income in the 1999 second quarter increased 30% and for the first six monthsof 1999 increased 43% from the same 1998 periods.Operating highlights for the second quarter of 1999 included: - Operating revenues increased by 13%. - Operating earnings per share rose 28%. - Return on common stockholders' equity was 24% with Shareholder Value Added (SVA) up 58%. - Common stock repurchases were $968 million, on a net basis, while the Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.4% remained above Chase's target.The strong 1999 second quarter results were driven by Chase's growing businessfranchises and continued financial discipline and demonstrated Chase's continuedstrategic focus.Business Franchises: Each of Chase's three business franchises, Global Banking,National Consumer Services and Global Services, posted double-digit revenuegrowth and more than 20% growth in cash operating earnings during the quarter.Chase's businesses continued to gain market share and improve its rankings inleague tables. For the first half of 1999 in the U.S., Chase ranked #1 in loansyndications, #3 in both high yield and investment grade corporate debtsecurities, and #8 in merger and acquisition advisory. Market-sensitive revenuesfor the second quarter were exceptional, increasing 30% over the prior year.Chase anticipates that the financial markets in the 1999 fourth quarter may slowdown, as corporations and customers prepare for the Year 2000 implementation. -12-  13Financial Discipline: Expense, credit and capital discipline also contributed tothe results. Total operating noninterest expense for the second quarter wasalmost flat when compared to the 1999 first quarter, credit costs remainedstable, and the capital discipline imposed by the Shareholder Value Addedmethodology ("SVA") enabled Chase to purchase $968 million of common stock ona net basis while maintaining the Tier 1 capital ratio at 8.4%.Strategic Focus: Finally, the quarter demonstrated Chase's strategic focus: itscommitment to use its resources to strengthen its competitive positions where ithas leadership positions and, at the same time, exit businesses where this isnot the case. During the 1999 second quarter, Chase established Chase.com toenable Chase to initiate and respond to opportunities on the internet; at thesame time, Chase has completed or announced sales of non-strategic businesses inBeaumont, Texas, the Virgin Islands and selected upstate-New York retailmarkets.Chase has targeted its financial performance goals over time as: average returnon common equity of 18% or higher, growth in operating revenues accelerating to10% per year and double-digit growth in operating earnings per share. Thesegoals were achieved in the 1999 second quarter.This Management's Discussion and Analysis contains certain forward-lookingstatements, including without limitation, statements related to credit, market,liquidity and operating risk. These forward-looking statements are subject torisks and uncertainties and Chase's actual results may differ materially fromthose included in these statements. Reference is made to Chase's reports filedwith the Securities and Exchange Commission, in particular the 1998 AnnualReport, for a discussion of factors that may cause such differences to occur.See Glossary of Terms on page 40 for a definition of terms used throughout thisForm 10-Q.LINES OF BUSINESS RESULTSFor a description of the basis of presentation that management uses to measureand evaluate business unit profitability, see page 19 of the 1998 Annual Report.The table below provides summary financial information on an operating basis forChase's three major business franchises. The discussion that follows the tablefocuses on business unit performance within these franchises. See Note Ten ofthis Form 10-Q for a further discussion of Chase's business segments.(a) Cash Operating Earnings represent operating earnings excluding the amortization of goodwill and certain intangibles.(b) Total column includes Corporate results. See description of Corporateresults on page 18.bp - Denotes basis points; 100bp equals 1%. -13-  14(a) Cash Operating Earnings represent operating earnings excluding the amortization of goodwill and certain intangibles.(b) Total column includes Corporate results. See description of Corporateresults on page 18.bp - Denotes basis points; 100bp equals 1%.GLOBAL BANKGlobal Bank combines the strengths of a leading commercial bank and a leadinginvestment bank to meet the needs of corporations, institutions, governments andwealthy individuals around the world. With operations in approximately 50countries, including major operations in all key international financialcenters, Global Bank integrates a broad range of leading product capabilities,industry knowledge and geographic reach to produce superior customer solutions.Global Bank operating revenues rose $313 million (or 13%) and $528 million (or11%) for the 1999 second quarter and six months, respectively. SVA increased by44% to $491 million in the 1999 second quarter and by 33% to $889 million forthe first six months of 1999. These favorable results were driven by strongtrading-related revenue, investment banking fees and private equity gains,partially offset by lower securities gains. -14-  15The following table sets forth certain key financial performance measures of thebusinesses within Global Bank for the periods indicated.NM - Not meaningfulbp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.GLOBAL MARKETSGlobal Markets' activities are diverse, by product and geography, and encompassthe trading and sale of foreign exchange, derivatives, fixed income securitiesand commodities. Chase trades 24 hours a day covering the major internationalcross-border financial markets, as well as many local markets. Also includedwithin Global Markets are Chase's domestic and international treasury units,which have the primary responsibility for managing Chase's interest rate riskexposures and investment securities activities. Treasury results are managed ona total return basis with one of the primary objectives being the creation ofeconomic value over time. Total return combines reported revenues (net interestincome and securities gains/losses) and the change in the net unrealizedappreciation/depreciation of all financial instruments and underlying balancesheet items.Chase's trading-related revenues for the second quarter and first half of 1999were $733 million (a 45% increase) and $1,570 million (a 32% increase),respectively. The results reflect strong performance in traditional products,including interest rate derivatives, and in newer products such as equityderivatives. The total return (pretax before expenses) from interest rate riskmanagement activities amounted to $(11) million and $240 million for the secondquarter and first half of 1999, respectively. The total return of $(11) millionin the second quarter of 1999 was due to a rise in interest rates domesticallyand in Europe. The total return for the second quarter and first six months of1998 was $92 million and $178 million, respectively.GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKINGGlobal Investment Banking advises corporations, financial institutions,financial sponsors and governments by providing integrated one-stop financialsolutions and industry expertise to clients globally. Chase's corporate financeclient base is extensive and is managed through global client industry groups.Product offerings encompass syndicated finance, high yield securities, mergersand acquisitions advisory, project finance, real estate advisory and placement,restructuring and private placements. Chase is the largest arranger of U.S.corporate debt, with a major presence in both the public and private debtmarkets, and has built a strong presence in the advisory area by leveraging itsdebt market leadership. -15-  16Cash operating earnings for Global Investment Banking rose 22% in the secondquarter of 1999 to $128 million, when compared with the same quarter in 1998,reflecting continued growth in market share in mergers and acquisitionsadvisory, corporate bond underwriting, and loan syndications. For the first sixmonths of 1999, cash operating earnings decreased by 28%, reflecting lowertrading results on high yield securities throughout the first quarter of 1999.CORPORATE LENDINGCorporate Lending provides credit and lending services to clients globallywithin a strategy that emphasizes origination for distribution. An activeportfolio management effort is an integral part of corporate lending activitiesand is focused on managing concentrations by product, borrower, risk grade,industry and geography. The use of SVA for product and customer decisionsresulted in higher spreads on retained assets and the disposition ofless-SVA-attractive loans. Management expects to continue to manage thecommercial loan portfolio for shareholder value rather than revenue growth.Revenues and cash operating earnings in the second quarter of 1999 remained flatwhen compared with the 1998 second quarter. For the first six months of 1999,revenues increased 2%, while cash operating earnings increased 10%, reflectinglower credit costs.CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERSChase Capital Partners ("CCP") is one of the largest global private equityorganizations with approximately $7.9 billion under management, including $5.2billion in direct equity and equity-related investments and $1.5 billion in fundinvestments. CCP provides equity and mezzanine financing for a wide variety ofinvestment opportunities in the United States and, to a lesser extent, abroad.During the first half of 1999, CCP's direct investments totaled approximately$900 million in 59 venture capital, management buyout, recapitalization, growthequity and mezzanine transactions, compared with approximately $870 million in62 direct investments for the first half of 1998. Earnings reflected continuedstrength in the equity markets, a favorable environment for technology andinternet initial public offerings (IPOs) (particularly in the second quarter of1999), and the positive impact of maturing investments within the portfolio,partially offset by higher costs to support a higher level of investments.GLOBAL PRIVATE BANK The Global Private Bank serves a global client base of highnet worth individuals and families, offering a full range of private bankingservices as well as access to the broad product capabilities of the Global Bank.Services include investment management, global capital market products andservices, risk management, alternative investments such as private equity funds,trust and estate planning, global custody, mutual funds, credit and banking, andphilanthropic advisory services. Revenues for the second quarter and the firsthalf of 1999 remained flat, when compared with the same 1998 periods.Double-digit revenue growth in the U.S. was offset by lower revenues in Europeand Asia as a result of a strategic change in the product mix offered by Chasein Europe and Asia. Revenues from managed investment products, includingdiscretionary portfolio management, grew at double-digit rates for the 1999first half. Cash operating earnings decreased 19% and 10% for the secondquarter and first six months of 1999, respectively, from comparable 1998periods, reflecting an increase in expenses due primarily to on-goingtechnology and productivity initiatives.MIDDLE MARKETSChase is the premier provider of financial services to middle-market companies(companies with sales ranging from $10 million to $500 million) regionally, witha national focus in selected industries. It is the market leader in the New Yorkmetropolitan tri-state area. Cash operating earnings increased slightly in thesecond quarter and first six months of 1999, compared with the respective 1998periods reflecting lower credit costs.NATIONAL CONSUMER SERVICESNational Consumer Services ("NCS") serves more than 30 million customersnationwide offering a wide variety of financial products and services through adiverse array of channels. Characterized by significant scale, and operatingunder the strong Chase brand, NCS combines nationwide presence with a leadingconsumer and small business banking franchise in the New York metropolitantri-state region and key Texas markets.For the second quarter and first six months of 1999, NCS's cash operatingearnings increased $74 million and $136 million, respectively, over the same1998 periods. These increases in cash operating earnings are attributable togrowth in origination and servicing volume of residential mortgages and autoloans, higher deposit and managed funds levels and higher fees and increasedlevel of customer activity through Brown & Company, Chase's discount brokeragefirm.Management expects the rate of growth in NCS revenues for the second half of1999 (in comparison to revenues in the second half of 1998) to be somewhat lowerthan the corresponding growth rate for the first half of 1999. This anticipatedmoderation in growth rate would be due, in part, to pricing initiatives in thelatter part of 1998. -16-  17The following table sets forth certain key financial performance measures of thebusinesses within NCS for the periods indicated.NM - Not meaningfulbp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.CHASE CARDMEMBER SERVICESChase Cardmember Services ("CCS") ranks as the fourth-largest bank card issuerin the United States. CCS also reflects the results of Chase's internationalconsumer business, which includes Chase Manhattan Card Company Limited, thethird largest credit card issuer in Hong Kong, as well as consumer bankingactivities primarily in Hong Kong. At June 30, 1999, CCS had a $33 billionmanaged world-wide credit card portfolio. CCS's cash operating earnings for thesecond quarter of 1999 were $132 million, a 15% increase over 1998. Cashoperating earnings for the first six months of 1999 rose 10% to $250 million.The increases in cash operating earnings reflect higher card usage, pricinginitiatives started in the 1998 second quarter, and improved credit quality.These favorable results were partially offset by higher marketing costs.REGIONAL CONSUMER BANKINGRegional Consumer Banking has a leading share of primary bank relationshipsamong consumers and small businesses in the New York metropolitan tri-statearea. It also has a leading retail institution in key Texas markets. RegionalConsumer Banking offers customers convenient access to financial servicesthrough their choice of distribution channels, including the largest branch andproprietary ATM networks in the New York metropolitan region, plus telephone, PCand Internet services. For the second quarter and first six months of 1999, cashoperating earnings increased 19% to $101 million and 22% to $200 million,respectively, compared with the same periods in 1998, benefiting from higherdeposit and managed funds balances coupled with growth in consumer banking feesand strong expense discipline.CHASE HOME FINANCEChase Home Finance serves more than 2 million customers nationwide and is thelargest originator and third-largest servicer of residential mortgage loans inthe U.S. It is also a leading provider of home-equity secured lending andmanufactured housing financing. During the first six months of 1999, $56 billionin residential first-mortgage loans, home-equity and manufactured housingfinancing were originated, a 56% increase over the same period last year. ChaseHome Finance's servicing portfolio increased 33% over the past twelve months andtotaled $245 billion at June 30, 1999. Cash operating earnings increased 21% to$70 million and 13% to $132 million for the second quarter and first half of1999, respectively. The increases were fueled by growth in originations andservicing, partially offset by lower net interest income as a result of higherfunding costs associated with the increase in servicing balances and higherexpenses stemming from greater business volume and technology investments. -17-  18DIVERSIFIED CONSUMER SERVICESDiversified Consumer Services ("DCS") is the largest bank originator of autoloans and leases in the United States and a leading provider of student loansand unsecured consumer lending. In addition to its financing activities, DCSoffers brokerage services and investment products nationwide and is one of themost diversified bank insurance providers in the U.S. During the first half of1999, auto finance originations were strong, increasing 14% when compared to thesame period in 1998. At June 30, 1999, Chase Auto Finance had $24 billion inmanaged receivables and $20 billion in balance sheet receivables. Increases incash operating earnings of 145% and 143% for DCS in the second quarter and firsthalf of 1999, respectively, were driven by the strong growth in auto finance andby higher revenues in Chase's investment and insurance businesses. Also includedin revenues for the first half of 1999 were $49 million of gains on sales ofstudent loans, which reflects a shift to a loan origination and sale strategy.GLOBAL SERVICESGlobal Services is a leading provider of information and transaction servicesglobally and includes custody and other investor services, treasury and cashmanagement, trade finance, debt, agency and other fiduciary services. As theworld's largest provider of global custody and a leader in trust and agencyservices, Global Services was custodian for over $5.0 trillion in assets andserviced over $3.0 trillion in outstanding debt at June 30, 1999. GlobalServices also operates the largest U.S. dollar funds transfer business in theworld and is a market leader in FedWire, ACH and CHIPS volume.For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 1999, cash operatingearnings for Global Services increased $25 million and $21 million,respectively, when compared with the same periods in 1998. Revenue growth was14% in the second quarter and 11% for the first six months of 1999, driven byacquisitions completed in 1998 and internally generated growth in investorservices and structured finance activities. These increases were offsetpartially by a decline in excess deposit balances in cash management services.Expenses for the first six months of 1999 were higher than the same period in1998, reflecting ongoing investment spending and costs related to Year 2000initiatives.Management anticipates that results for Global Services for the 1999 thirdquarter will be generally consistent with that of the 1999 second quarter;however, the 1999 fourth quarter revenue growth rate (in comparison to thefourth quarter of 1998) might be lower than the corresponding revenue growthrate in the current quarter, as business transaction volume is expected to slowin light of customer concerns involving the Year 2000.CORPORATECorporate includes Chase's Global Asset Management and Mutual Funds business,which provides investment management for institutional investors globally andmanages the Chase Global Mutual Funds. Total assets under management amountedto $213 billion at June 30, 1999. Corporate also includes the effects remainingat the Corporate level after the implementation of management accountingpolicies. For the second quarter and six months ended June 30, 1999, Corporatehad a cash operating loss of $14 million and $73 million, respectively,compared with a cash operating loss of $39 million and $93 million for the sameperiods in 1998. Prior periods have been restated to reflect refinements inmanagement reporting policies or changes to the management organization.ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGESIn the 1999 second quarter, Chase announced a reorganization within each of itsthree major franchises. For example, the Middle Markets business will reportinto the National Consumer Services franchise. These changes will be reflectedin the lines of business results for the 1999 third quarter.In June 1999, Chase created a new organization called Chase.com. Thisorganization will have direct management responsibility for new internet relatedventures and for working with Chase's lines of businesses to capitalize oninternet opportunities. The Chase.com organization has recently created analliance with Shopnow.com, which will provide customers a convenient way to makeinternet purchases across the United States. Also, Chase.com has formed a jointventure with Wells Fargo & Company and First Union Corporation called "SpectrumEBP, LLC", which will permit the payment of bills electronically.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following section provides a discussion of Chase's results of operations asreported under generally accepted accounting principles as well as on theoperating basis that is used by management in measuring Chase's financialperformance. To further facilitate its analysis of Chase's financial results,management categorizes revenue components as market-sensitive or asless-market-sensitive revenues. Market-sensitive revenues include tradingrevenues (including trading-related net interest income), investment bankingfees, securities gains and private equity gains. The remaining revenuecomponents are categorized as less-market-sensitive revenue. -18-  19The following table provides a reconciliation between Chase's results asreported in its Consolidated Financial Statements and as presented on anoperating basis. Charge-offs for risk management instruments, previouslyincluded in credit costs, are now netted against trading revenue. All priorperiods have been restated.(in millions, except per share data)(a) Represents results as reported in Chase's financial statements, except that revenues are categorized between market-sensitive and less-market-sensitive revenues, foreclosed property expense is reclassified from noninterest expense to credit costs, and restructuring costs have been separately displayed.(b) This column excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. For securitized receivables, amounts that would previously have been reported as net interest income and as provision for loan losses are instead reported as components of noninterest revenue (credit card revenue and other revenue).(c) Includes restructuring costs and special items. For a description of special items, see Glossary of Terms on page 40. -19-  20MARKET-SENSITIVE REVENUEMarket-sensitive revenues are, in management's view, typically more sensitive tochanges in general market conditions than those revenue components managementconsiders as less-market-sensitive. While components of market-sensitiverevenues experience volatility (particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis),over the past ten years total market-sensitive revenues have increased at acompound annual growth rate ("CAGR") of approximately 14% and have exhibitedlimited annual volatility around the regression trendline.For the second quarter and first six months, market-sensitive revenues in 1999increased 30% and 23%, respectively, over the same 1998 periods, reflectingincreases in trading-related revenues, investment banking fees and privateequity gains. A discussion of the components within market-sensitive revenue ispresented below.INVESTMENT BANKING FEESInvestment banking fees of $585 million in the 1999 second quarter were up 34%from Chase's previous record of $438 million in the second quarter of 1998; feesof $902 million for the first six months of 1999 were 13% higher than the firsthalf of 1998. These strong results reflect continued growth in market share inmergers and acquisitions advisory, corporate bond underwriting, and loansyndications, as Chase leverages its broad customer base and leadershippositions in attractive markets.TRADING-RELATED REVENUETrading revenues and related net interest income rose 45% to $733 million forthe 1999 second quarter and 32% to $1,570 million for the first half of 1999.The results reflect strong performance across the full range of tradingproducts.(a) Charge-offs for risk management instruments are included in trading revenue. All prior periods have been restated.(b) Trading-related net interest income includes interest recognized on interest-earning and interest-bearing trading-related positions as well as management allocations reflecting the funding cost or benefit associated with trading positions. This amount is included in net interest income on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(c) Includes interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate futures and options, forward rate agreements and related hedges.(d) Includes equity securities, equity derivatives, commodities and commodity derivatives.(e) Includes U.S. and foreign government agency securities, corporate debt instruments, emerging markets debt instruments, debt-related derivatives and credit derivatives.Interest rate contract revenue increased in the second quarter and first half of1999 as a result of interest rate movements in the European markets. Foreignexchange spot and option contract revenue declined in the second quarter and forthe first half of 1999, due to reduced volume because of a return to normalvolatility in the Asian markets. Equities and commodities revenue increased forboth 1999 periods as a result of favorable market conditions for equityderivative products throughout the first half of 1999. The increase in debtinstruments and other resulted from continued improvement in emerging marketsactivities and high-grade bonds.SECURITIES GAINSSecurities gains realized for the 1999 second quarter were $5 million, comparedwith $98 million in the prior year's second quarter. Total securities gains forthe first half of 1999 were $161 million, an 11% decrease over the same periodin 1998. The decline in securities gains was due to a lower level of sales inthe current quarter as a result of higher market interest rates, which reducedthe market value of these securities. Unrealized net losses in Chase'savailable-for-sale securities portfolio were approximately $1.3 billion, beforetaxes, at June 30, 1999, a decrease from a net unrealized gain of approximately$600 million, before taxes, at year-end 1998, reflecting a rise in interestrates during the 1999 first half. The market valuation does not include thefavorable impact of changes in interest rates on related funding.PRIVATE EQUITY GAINSPrivate equity gains include income from a wide variety of investments in theUnited States and, to a lesser extent, abroad. Private equity gains in thesecond quarter and first half of 1999 were $143 million higher (an increase of39%) and $175 million higher (an increase of 26%) than the same periods in theprior year. These results reflect gains on investments in several technology andinternet companies which completed initial public offerings during the 1999second quarter, as well as the positive impact of maturing investments withinthe portfolio. -20-  21LESS-MARKET-SENSITIVE REVENUEThe less-market-sensitive revenue captions are generally subject to less marketvolatility than market-sensitive revenues. However, certain components withinless-market-sensitive revenue are subject to market volatility, particularlyassets that are held-for-sale and are accounted for on either a mark-to-marketbasis or lower-of-cost-or-market basis.Less-market-sensitive revenues increased by 6% in the 1999 second quarter and by7% for the first half of 1999 reflecting increases across all categories forboth periods, with the exception of operating other revenue which declined inthe 1999 second quarter. A discussion of less-market-sensitive revenuecomponents is presented below.NET INTEREST INCOMEReported net interest income was $2.15 billion for the 1999 second quarter and$4.35 billion for the 1999 first six months, increasing 5% and 4%, respectively,from the comparable 1998 periods. Reported results include trading-related netinterest income of $207 million for the 1999 second quarter and $426 million forthe first half of 1999, increases of 13% and 8%, respectively, from the same1998 periods. For purposes of internal analysis, management combinestrading-related net interest income with trading revenue, as discussed under thetrading-related revenue caption in the Market-Sensitive Revenue section.The following table provides a reconciliation between reported net interestincome as presented on the Consolidated Statement of Income and operating netinterest income.(a) Disclosed on a taxable equivalent basis.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.Operating net interest income was $2.28 billion in the 1999 second quarter, anincrease of 3% from the 1998 second quarter, and $4.59 billion for the 1999first six months, an increase of 2% from the 1998 first six months. Theincreases were primarily due to higher average managed interest-earning assets,particularly domestic consumer loans (notably auto financings), and domesticcommercial loans. These increases were partially offset by a decline in theforeign commercial loan portfolio, as Chase significantly reduced its exposureto emerging markets during the latter part of 1998. The growth in managedinterest-earning assets in 1999 was funded by interest-bearing deposits.The net yield on a managed basis was 3.59% for the 1999 second quarter, stablewith the 1998 second quarter. The net yield on a managed basis for the first sixmonths of 1999 was 3.60%, a seven basis point decline from the net yield for thefirst six months of 1998. A slight improvement in commercial loan spreads wasoffset by a decline in excess free balances. As a result of decreases in boththe volume and rate earned on interest-free funds, interest-free fundscontributed 60 basis points to the net yield in the 1999 second quarter,compared to 81 basis points in the 1998 second quarter, and contributed 61 basispoints to the net yield in the first six months of 1999, compared to 83 basispoints in the first six months of 1998. -21-  22TRUST, CUSTODY AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEESTrust, custody and investment management fees continued their strong performancein the 1999 second quarter and first half by increasing 20% over the sameperiods in 1998. These favorable results were largely attributable to portfolioacquisitions of custody and corporate trust businesses in late 1998 andinternally generated growth in investor services and structured financeactivities.CREDIT CARD REVENUECredit card revenue on a reported basis rose $73 million, or 20%, in the 1999second quarter and for the 1999 first six months, credit card revenue increased$152 million, or 23%. These increases were the result of increased credit cardcustomer purchase volume and higher late charges.The following table provides a reconciliation between reported credit cardrevenue as presented on the Consolidated Statement of Income and operatingcredit card revenue, which excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.FEES FOR OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES(a) Insurance amounts exclude certain insurance fees related to credit cards and mortgage products, which are included in those revenue captions.Mortgage servicing fees increased by 57% and 34% for the second quarter andfirst half of 1999, respectively, due to a larger servicing balance. Theservicing portfolio increased 33% from prior year levels due to higherorigination volume. Brokerage and investment services rose $15 million in thesecond quarter and $26 million in the first half, due to a significant increasein customer activity through Brown & Company, Chase's discount brokerage firm.In the past year, Brown & Company has tripled its average trades per day toapproximately 35,000, two-thirds of which are now on-line. Higher insurance feesin both the 1999 second quarter and first half reflected increased businessvolume. Other fees rose in both the second quarter and for the first half of1999 due to ATM fees charged to non-Chase customers, new cash managementproducts and higher business volume across a number of products.OTHER REVENUE -22-  23Other revenue on a reported basis increased for both 1999 periods, when comparedwith the same 1998 periods. The 1999 second quarter results included $166million in gains from sales of nonstrategic assets, of which $95 million wasfrom the sale of One New York Plaza and $71 million was from the sale ofbranches in Beaumont, Texas.Other revenue on an operating basis decreased $50 million in the 1999 secondquarter and increased $27 million for the first six months, compared with thesame 1998 periods. The 1999 second quarter results included gains from the saleof student loans, while the 1998 second quarter results included gains from thesale of a variety of assets. Contributing to the 1999 six month increase washigher revenue from residential mortgage originations and sales activities, areflection of the favorable interest-rate environment in early 1999, as well ashigher revenues from the Octagon Credit Investment Fund, which was establishedlate in the 1998 first quarter.NONINTEREST EXPENSETotal reported noninterest expense was $3.07 billion in the 1999 second quarterand $6.01 billion in the first half of 1999. The second quarter of 1999 includeda special contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation totaling $100 million.Operating noninterest expense increased 9% and 11% for the second quarter andfirst half of 1999, respectively, reflecting technology-related costs, incentivecosts tied to higher market-sensitive revenues and a change in the long-termcompensation program of the Global Bank. Chase continues to manage its operatingnoninterest expense to support its revenue growth.(a) Represents a $100 million special contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation.(b) Included within Other Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Income. For purposes of reviewing the results on an operating basis, these expenses are reflected in Credit Costs.(c) Excludes restructuring costs, foreclosed property expense, costs associated with the REIT and special items.(d) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.The increase in salaries and employee benefits for the 1999 second quarter andfirst half was due to higher incentive costs, mainly driven by highermarket-sensitive revenues and a change in the long-term compensation program ofthe Global Bank. Also contributing to the increase was the net addition of 2,712full-time equivalent employees as a result of acquisitions (in the mortgage,credit card, and custody and fiduciary services businesses) and growth incertain businesses.OCCUPANCY AND EQUIPMENT EXPENSEOccupancy expense increased $15 million in the 1999 second quarter and $44million during the first six months of 1999 when compared with the secondquarter and first six months of 1998. The increases were primarily due to higherrental costs resulting from business expansions and acquisitions occurringduring the latter half of 1998. The higher level of equipment expense during the1999 second quarter and first six months was the result of an increase indepreciation expense from the capitalization of costs related to more advancedhardware systems across all businesses. The increase was also related to higherrental costs for Year 2000 compliant computer equipment. For a furtherdiscussion of Year 2000 efforts, see Operating Risk Management section on page33. -23-  24OTHER EXPENSE(a) Includes REIT minority interest expense of $11 million in each quarter.(b) Represents a $100 million special contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation.Other expenses for the 1999 second quarter and first six months increased $143million and $244 million, respectively, when compared with the second quarterand first six months of 1998. Professional services costs for both 1999 periodsreflected a higher level of contract computer professionals associated with theYear 2000 efforts. The increase in marketing expenses was due to higher costs atChase Cardmember Services and for the Chase brand campaign. The rise intelecommunications costs primarily reflects both installation and usage stemmingfrom the growth in business volume at all of Chase's major franchises. Thepurchase of a global custody business during the fourth quarter 1998 contributedto the increase in the amortization of intangibles. All other expenses for the1999 first six months increased $40 million when compared to the same period of1998, reflecting a growth in business volume at Chase Cardmember Services andthe global custody acquisition. In the second quarter of 1999, a $100 millionspecial contribution was made to The Chase Manhattan Foundation in order toincrease the endowment of the foundation. This contribution is treated as aspecial item.RESTRUCTURING COSTSFor a discussion of Chase's restructuring costs, see Note Four on page 8 of thisForm 10-Q.CREDIT COSTSCredit costs include provisions for loan losses, foreclosed property expense andcredit costs associated with credit card securitizations. The following tableshows the components of credit costs.(a) Included in Other Expense on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(b) Excludes provision for risk management instrument credit losses of $10 million in the second quarter of 1998 and $22 million for the first six months of 1998, which are netted against trading revenue. Prior periods have been restated.Credit costs in 1999 increased from the respective 1998 levels, primarily due tohigher credit losses and lower recoveries in the domestic commercial portfolio.For a discussion of Chase's net charge-offs, see page 26.INCOME TAXESChase recognized income tax expense of $767 million in the second quarter of1999 compared with $631 million in the second quarter of 1998. For the first sixmonths, Chase recorded income tax expense of $1.41 billion in 1999, comparedwith $1.06 billion in 1998. The effective tax rates were 35.5% for both 1999periods and 37.0% for both 1998 periods. -24-  25CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's credit risk management focuses primarily ondevelopments since December 31, 1998 and should be read in conjunction withpages 29-35 and 50-51 of Chase's 1998 Annual Report.The following table presents Chase's credit-related information for the datesindicated.(a) Represents the portion of Chase's credit card receivables that have been securitized.(b) Excludes charge-offs for risk management instruments of $10 million in the second quarter of 1998 and $22 million for the first six months of 1998, which are netted against trading revenues. -25-  26Chase's managed credit-related assets totaled $218 billion at June 30, 1999, adecrease of $6 billion, or 3%, during the first six months of 1999. The decreasewas primarily due to lower derivative and foreign exchange receivables, as loanbalances remained relatively stable.Chase's nonperforming assets at June 30, 1999 increased $27 million, or 2%, fromthe 1998 year-end level. This increase occurred primarily in the domesticcommercial loan portfolio and was partially offset by a decrease in the foreigncommercial loan portfolio.Total net charge-offs on a retained basis increased by $60 million during the1999 second quarter and by $108 million for the first six months of 1999, whencompared to the same periods in 1998. Managed net charge-offs increased in both1999 periods by $20 million and $57 million, respectively. The increase in netcharge-offs on both a managed and retained basis is primarily due to increasedcharge-off levels in the retained credit card portfolio and lower recoveries inthe domestic commercial and industrial loan portfolio. These increases werepartially offset by lower levels of net charge-offs in the securitized creditcard and foreign commercial loan portfolios.Management expects that credit costs, on a managed basis, will remainrelatively stable over the remainder of 1999 and for full year 1999 will be ofa similar magnitude to total credit costs incurred in 1998. For the consumerportfolio, management expects net charge-off rates will be approximately thesame as in 1998; however, reported net charge-offs will vary depending on thelevel of credit card securitizations completed during the year.AVERAGE ANNUAL NET CHARGE-OFF RATES(a) Includes domestic and foreign credit card activity.(b) Includes foreign loans.CONSUMER LOAN PORTFOLIOResidential Mortgage Loans: Residential mortgage loans outstanding remainedstable at June 30, 1999, when compared with year-end balances, while the levelof nonperforming domestic residential mortgage loans decreased by 3%. The lossrate of .08% for the 1999 second quarter was up slightly from the previous year.However, for the first six months of 1999, net charge-offs decreased by $6million when compared to the same period in 1998. This portfolio's asset qualitycontinues to be strong.Credit Card Loans: Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis,which includes credit card receivables on the balance sheet as well as creditcard receivables that have been securitized.Average managed credit card receivables increased slightly for the three and sixmonth periods ended June 30, 1999, compared with the same periods last year. Thedecrease in the net charge-off percentage rate for the second quarter of 1999was a result of lower customer bankruptcy levels.MANAGED CREDIT CARD PORTFOLIO (a)(a) Includes domestic and foreign credit card activity. -26-  27Auto Financings: Auto financings outstanding increased 11%, reflecting continuedstrong consumer demand due to favorable pricing programs. Total originationswere $6.7 billion in the first six months of 1999, an increase of 14% whencompared with the same 1998 period. The charge-off rates of .42% for the secondquarter and .43% for the first six months of 1999 are indicative of theselective approach to asset origination.Other Consumer: Other consumer loans decreased 25% from the year-end level dueto the sale of student loans during the first six months of 1999.COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIOThe domestic commercial portfolio at June 30, 1999 increased $2.1 billion fromthe year-end level. Net charge-offs were $30 million during the 1999 secondquarter and $66 million for the first half of 1999, compared with net recoveriesin the same prior year periods. The net charge-offs for the portfolio remainedat a low level, indicative of the portfolio's diversification and strong creditquality.The foreign commercial portfolio totaled $34.5 billion at June 30, 1999 andoutstandings and nonperforming loan levels both declined slightly from 1998year-end levels. Net charge-off levels for the 1999 second quarter and firsthalf decreased in comparison with the prior year by $46 million, or 45%, and $65million, or 38%, respectively, due to stabilizing financial conditions in Asia.COUNTRY EXPOSUREThe following table presents Chase's country exposure to Asia and Latin America.Country exposure is based on the Federal Financial Institutions ExaminationCouncil ("FFIEC") guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk.For a further discussion of Chase's country exposure, see pages 33-34 of Chase's1998 Annual Report.SELECTED COUNTRY EXPOSURE (a)(a) Country exposure is based on FFIEC guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk. Under FFIEC guidelines, resale agreements are reported by the country of the issuer of the underlying security. Chase, however, does not consider the cross-border risk of resale agreements to depend upon the country of the issuer of the underlying security and, as a result, has presented these amounts separately in the above table.(b) Includes loans and accrued interest, interest-bearing deposits with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit and undrawn commitments to extend credit.(c) Includes cross-border trading debt and equity instruments and the mark-to-market exposure of foreign exchange and derivative contracts. The amounts associated with foreign exchange and derivative contracts are presented after taking into account the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements.(d) Excludes Bermuda and Cayman Islands. -27-  28At June 30, 1999, Chase had approximately $64 million in lending and tradingrelated exposure to Russia, a decrease of $32 million from December 31, 1998.Chase also had at June 30, 1999 approximately $30 million in resale agreementswith non-Russian counterparties collateralized by non-ruble denominated Russiandebt, a decrease of $57 million from the 1998 year-end.Chase significantly reduced its exposure to emerging markets in Asia and LatinAmerica from a year ago (by 30% and 19%, respectively) and further lowered itsexposure to Asia from year-end (by 12%). Total nonperforming assets in Asiaincreased by $21 million from 1998 year-end to $522 million at June 30, 1999.Asian commercial loan net charge-offs for the 1999 second quarter and first sixmonths were $71 million and $130 million, respectively, compared with $112million and $192 million, respectively, in the same 1998 periods. There were nocharge-offs for Latin American commercial loans during the first six months of1999.Management completed a strategic review of its cross-border activities duringthe first quarter of 1999. As a result of that review, management believes thatChase's current levels of cross-border exposure reflect appropriate levels ofbusiness, market, credit and capital risk in light of Chase's cross-borderbusiness activities and, accordingly, management currently does not expect therewill be significant changes in Chase's cross-border exposures over the balanceof 1999.DERIVATIVE AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTSFor a discussion of the derivative and foreign exchange contracts utilized inconnection with Chase's trading and ALM activities, see pages 34-35 and NotesOne and Nineteen of Chase's 1998 Annual Report. Chase's counterparties inderivatives and foreign exchange are primarily investment grade financialinstitutions, most of which are dealers in these products. The following tableprovides the remaining maturities of derivative and foreign exchange contractsoutstanding at June 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998.At June 30, 1999, nonperforming derivative contracts were $36 million, comparedwith $50 million at December 31, 1998. The decrease in nonperforming derivativecontracts was due to stabilizing financial conditions in Asia since the 1998fourth quarter. -28-  29ALLOWANCES FOR CREDIT LOSSESThe following discussion of Chase's allowances for credit losses focusesprimarily on developments since December 31, 1998 and should be read inconjunction with page 35 and Notes One and Five of Chase's 1998 Annual Report.(in millions, except ratios)(a) During the second quarter of 1999, Chase reclassified the Allowance for Credit Losses on Risk Management Instruments to be included as part of the valuation of its Trading Assets: Risk Management Instruments.Chase deems its allowances for credit losses at June 30, 1999 to be adequate(i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that may currently exist for all creditactivities, but are not yet identifiable). Estimating losses is inherentlyuncertain and depends on many factors, including general macroeconomic andpolitical conditions, rating migration, structural changes within industrieswhich alter competitive positions, event risk, unexpected correlations withinthe portfolio, and other external factors such as legal and regulatoryrequirements. Chase periodically reviews such factors and reassesses theadequacy of the allowances for credit losses. -29-  30MARKET RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's market risk management focuses primarily ondevelopments since December 31, 1998 and should be read in conjunction withpages 36-39 and Notes One and Nineteen of Chase's 1998 Annual Report.The total VAR for Chase's trading portfolio, market risk-related ALM portfolio,and aggregate portfolio as of and for the twelve-month period ended June 30,1999 were as follows:(a) Fund Investments represent Chase's exposure to hedge fund activities.Chase's average aggregate VAR (VAR for both trading and ALM activities) for thetwelve-month period ended June 30, 1999 was $71.8 million and at June 30, 1999was $84.0 million. Chase's aggregate average and period-end VARs are less thanthe sum of the respective trading and ALM VARs shown in the above table (by$21.7 million and $20.7 million, respectively) due to risk offsets, resultingfrom portfolio diversification which occurs across the trading and ALMportfolios. The increases in the aggregate VAR levels for 1999 were primarilythe result of the adverse market conditions that existed in the 1998 thirdquarter.Chase conducts daily VAR backtesting for both regulatory compliance with theBasle Committee on Banking Supervision market risk capital rules and internalevaluation of VAR against trading revenues. For mark-to-market activities, therewere 2 days during the twelve months ended June 30, 1999 in which a dailytrading loss exceeded that day's VAR. This compares to an expected number ofapproximately 3 days under Chase's VAR model. These losses occurred during thethird quarter of 1998 and resulted from the adverse market conditions in effectat that time.The following chart contains a histogram of Chase's daily market risk-relatedrevenue, which is defined as the daily change in value of mark-to-market tradingportfolios plus any trading-related net interest income or other revenue. Chaseposted positive daily market risk-related revenue for 231 out of 259 businesstrading days, with 60 business days exceeding positive $20 million. Chaseincurred five daily trading losses in excess of negative $20 million over thepast twelve months. All five daily trading losses occurred in the 1998 thirdquarter and resulted from the adverse global market conditions of that period. -30-  31 [Graphic of Daily Market Risk-Related Revenue - See Appendix I]ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENTMeasuring Interest Rate Sensitivity: As noted in the 1998 Annual Report,oversight of Chase's ALM interest rate risk and Market Risk Management functionswas consolidated under the Market Risk Committee at the beginning of 1999. Atthat time, Chase began to extend the market risk procedures and measurementsutilized for its trading and investment portfolios to its ALM activities.Chase, as part of its ALM process, employs a variety of instruments includingsecurities and derivatives in managing its exposure to fluctuations in interestrates. At year end, Chase presented its market risk exposure in the form of anaggregate net gap position. In net gap analysis, assets, liabilities andderivative instruments are placed in gap intervals based on their repricingdates. For a more complete discussion of gap analysis, see page 38 of the 1998Annual Report. Although gap analysis is a widely used representation of interestrate risk, it is limited in that it does not include the impact of factors suchas basis risk. Basis risk results from the fact that assets may be repriced on adifferent interest rate index than liabilities (for instance, LIBOR vs. primerate repricing). In addition, the position risk presented in gap analysis cannotreveal the impact of other factors, such as pricing strategies on consumer andbusiness deposits or changes in balance sheet mix, on Chase's earnings oreconomic value.In order to improve its management of interest rate exposure and as part of theconvergence of the ALM and market risk management processes, Chase implementedduring the first quarter of 1999 a new measure to estimate the potential changein value to Chase's ALM portfolio as a result of changes in interest rates. Thisnew measure is used in conjunction with existing earnings simulation measures.The new measure, which is called "Basis Point Value" (BPV), quantifies thechange in the economic value of Chase's ALM portfolio (non-trading on- andoff-balance sheet positions) that would result from a 1 basis point change ininterest rates. This same measure is also used to quantify the economic valuesensitivity of the ALM positions to basis risk.At June 30, 1999, Chase had a BPV value of $5.0 million (pre-tax), indicatingthat the economic value of Chase's ALM positions would decline $5.0 million forevery 1 basis point increase in interest rates, assuming all rates moved inparallel together. This compares with a BPV of $6.4 million at December 31,1998. The BPV measure is generally "symmetrical"; that is, a 1 basis pointdecrease in interest rates at June 30, 1999 would result in a $5.0 million(pre-tax) increase in economic value. The BPV measure includes exposure to U.S.dollar interest rates as well as exposure to non-U.S. dollar interest rates incurrency markets in which Chase does business. Since U.S. dollar interest ratesand non-U.S. dollar interest rates may not move in tandem, the reported BPVvalue may not represent the actual change in economic value of Chases' ALMportfolio. -31-  32At June 30, 1999, based on Chase's simulation models and applying immediateincreases to various market interest rates (100 bp increase for US dollar -denominated positions and a range from 100 bp to 1500 bp increases for non-USdollar - denominated positions), earnings at risk over the next twelve monthsare estimated to be approximately 3% of projected 1999 net income. During 1998,Chase's earnings at risk to an immediate rise in interest rates averaged lessthan 4% of net income for 1998. The hypothetical rate shocks are used tocalculate risk that Chase believes to be reasonably possible of occurring in thenear term, but these scenarios do not necessarily represent management's currentview of future market interest rate developments.Impact of ALM Derivative Activity:The following table reflects the deferred gains/losses on closed derivativecontracts and unrecognized gains/losses on open derivative contracts utilized inChase's ALM activities at June 30, 1999 and December 31, 1998.(a) These net unrecognized gains/(losses) do not include the net unfavorable/(favorable) impact from the assets/liabilities being hedged by these derivative contracts.LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENTThe following liquidity and capital discussion should be read in conjunctionwith the Liquidity Risk Management section on pages 40-41 and Note Eighteen ofChase's 1998 Annual Report.LIQUIDITYDuring the first six months of 1999, Chase issued $3.3 billion of long-term debtand capital securities of subsidiaries, more than offsetting $1.8 billion oflong-term debt that matured and $277 million that was redeemed.For a discussion of liquidity risk related to Year 2000, see the Operating RiskManagement section of this Form 10-Q on pages 33 and 34, and pages 41-42 ofChase's 1998 Annual Report.CAPITALChase's capital levels at June 30, 1999 remained strong, with capital ratioswell in excess of regulatory guidelines. At June 30, 1999, the Tier 1 and TotalCapital ratios were 8.4% and 12.0%, respectively, and the Tier 1 leverage ratiowas 6.8%.Management believes a reasonable long-term growth rate for balance sheet assetsis approximately 6% - 7%. However, during the first half of 1999, Chase'sbalance sheet assets decreased by 2%, primarily as a result of continued focuson removing non-positive SVA assets from the balance sheet. The following tableshows the impact this disciplined approach has had on the growth in Chase'srisk-weighted assets.At June 30, 1999, the Tier 1 capital ratio was the same as at March 31, 1999,and had increased from year-end 1998, notwithstanding net equity purchasesduring the second quarter of approximately $968 million and for the first sixmonths of approximately $1.8 billion. These results were due to strong incomegrowth, with minimal growth in risk-weighted assets, during the first six monthsof 1999. -32-  33Management's current intention is to target a Tier 1 ratio in the range of 8% to8.25% over the long term, recognizing that the Tier 1 ratio may be outside thatrange from time to time, as it was at the end of both quarters of 1999. Capitalgenerated in excess of this target ratio will be used to purchase Chase commonstock or for future reinvestment and acquisition opportunities.The following table shows the sources and uses of Chase's free cash flow for theperiods indicated.During the first six months of 1999, $2.0 billion of free cash flow wasgenerated, the same amount as for full year 1998 and twice that for full year1997, as less capital was needed for internal growth (as was the case in 1997),or to bolster capital ratios (as was the case in 1998). The excess cash in 1999was primarily used for equity repurchases.In the first quarter of 1999, Chase raised the cash dividend on its common stockto $.41 per share from $.36 per share. Chase has over the past several yearsbeen paying a common stock dividend that has generally been equal toapproximately 25% to 35% of Chase's operating net income, less preferred stockdividends. Chase's future dividend policies will be determined by its Board ofDirectors taking into consideration Chase's earnings and financial condition andapplicable governmental regulation and policies.Under its equity repurchase program, which became effective January 4, 1999,Chase may repurchase up to $3 billion of its common stock in the open market orthrough negotiated transactions, in addition to any amounts that may need to bepurchased to provide for issuances under Chase's dividend reinvestment plan andits various stock-based employee benefit plans. As of June 30, 1999, Chaserepurchased approximately net $1.8 billion.At June 30, 1999, the total capitalization of Chase (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier2 capital) was $35.0 billion, an increase of $177 million from December 31,1998. This increase reflects retained earnings (net income less common andpreferred dividends) generated during the period and new issuance of capitalsecurities of subsidiaries qualifying as Tier 1 capital, partially offset bycommon stock repurchases and a net decline in debt issuances qualifying as Tier2 capital.OPERATING RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's operating risk management focuses primarilyon developments since December 31, 1998.Year 2000: Chase's Year 2000 efforts, including a description of each of theitems listed in the table below, are discussed on pages 41-42 of Chase's 1998Annual Report and on pages 32-33 of Chase's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q forthe quarter ended March 31, 1999 ("First Quarter 10-Q"). The information belowupdates Chase's Year 2000 disclosures.Chase achieved near-perfect compliance with the June 30, 1999 milestones for"mission-critical" systems applications established by the federal bankregulatory authorities. The status of Chase's Year 2000 remediation and testingefforts, for both "mission-critical" and "non-mission-critical" systems at June30, 1999 is set forth below. -33-  34(a) While testing and implementation have been completed, efforts will continue around external testing and certification throughout the year.(b) Actual percentage remediated is over 99.5%. For each of these types of systems, actual percentage remediated also indicates the percentage tested to be Year 2000 compliant and implemented.(c) For Business Software Applications, actual percentage remediated is 100%, of which 99.66% have also been tested to be Year 2000 compliant and implemented.With remediation and testing of systems essentially completed, Chase'sinformation technology teams will continue to manage system changes to ensurethat applications remain Year 2000 compliant. In addition, Chase's IndependentValidation and Verification (IVV) efforts have proven very successful inconfirming the quality of code remediation and testing. IVV is a means ofuncovering potential Year 2000 errors in remediated code that may have beenmissed in testing. Independent systems analysts, utilizing sophisticated Year2000 code examination tools, were contracted by Chase to identify remainingpotential Year 2000 errors. Over 80% of Chase's internal mission criticalsoftware, representing more than 130 million lines of code, have been processedthrough IVV. A small number of errors were identified using IVV and wererepaired by Chase.The major focus of the balance of this year is business risk management,contingency planning and event preparation. Under the auspices of Chase's Year2000 Business Risk Council, contingency plans have been refined and are in theprocess of being tested. Approximately 250 different risk scenarios have beenidentified across all geographies and Chase businesses, resulting in thedevelopment of approximately 1,400 individual Year 2000 contingency plans. Theseplans include identification of possible alternative methods by which to provideservice, alternative locations for operations, increased staff support toservice customers, as well as ways for Chase to maintain critical services inthe event of environmental infrastructure outages. In addition, Chase hasperformed a Year 2000 credit assessment of its loan portfolios. Chase has alsodeveloped Year 2000 stress scenarios in order to stress test itsmarket-sensitive portfolios. These scenarios will continue to be updatedthroughout the year as more information about world-wide Year 2000 readinessevolves. Chase has performed stress testing, and will continue to perform stresstesting, on at least a monthly basis through 1999, for its market-sensitiveportfolios utilizing these scenarios. Chase is also in the process of makingpreparations to have appropriate liquidity funding available at year-end,including increased cash reserves for ATM machines.Event preparation activities also continue. Year 2000 command centers are beingcreated; problem tracking and reporting tools designed; key operational andservice performance measures identified for tracking; "wellness checks" offacilities, services, and systems planned; and training of "rapid responseteams" scheduled. Dress rehearsals have been scheduled for three weekends duringthe fourth quarter of 1999 and command centers will become operational in lateDecember.Chase currently estimates that full year 1999 Year 2000 costs will increase toapproximately $158 million (versus the $127 million reported in the FirstQuarter 10-Q). The largest portion of the $31 million increase is directlyrelated to the cost of IVV. The balance is due to increased levels of testingand additional costs associated with event preparation and contingency planning. -34-  35SUPERVISION AND REGULATIONThe following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Supervision andRegulation section on pages 1-4 of Chase's 1998 Annual Report.DIVIDENDSChase's bank subsidiaries could, without the approval of their relevant bankingregulators, pay dividends to their respective bank holding companies in amountsup to the limitations imposed upon such banks by regulatory restrictions. Thesedividend limitations, in the aggregate, totaled approximately $3.4 billion atJune 30, 1999.ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTSDERIVATIVESIn June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS 133, which establishes accounting andreporting standards for all derivative instruments, including certain derivativeinstruments embedded in other financial instruments (collectively referred to asderivatives), and for hedging activities. During the second quarter of 1999, theFASB issued SFAS 137, which delayed the effective date of SFAS 133 for one year,with early adoption permitted. Chase will, therefore, not be required to adoptSFAS 133 until calendar year 2001. For a further discussion of the requirementsof SFAS 133, see the Accounting and Reporting Developments section on page 43 ofthe 1998 Annual Report.OTHER EVENTSOn August 2, 1999, Chase announced that Neal S. Garonzik had joined Chase asVice Chairman, with responsibilities for asset management and strategicinitiatives in equities and other areas.On August 4, 1999, Chase reached an agreement to acquire the residentialmortgage business of Mellon Bank, N.A. The proposed acquisition would make Chasethe largest U.S. mortgage servicer, with more than 3.1 million customers and acombined servicing portfolio of $292 billion. -35-  36 THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND RATIOS)(a) Based on annualized amounts.(b) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations, restructuring costs and special items. See Glossary of Terms on page 40.(c) Includes provision for loan losses, foreclosed property expenses and credit costs related to the securitized credit card portfolio.(d) Cash Operating Earnings represent operating earnings excluding the amortization of goodwill and certain intangibles.(e) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%NM - Not meaningful -36-  37 THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND RATES (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT INTEREST AND RATES; IN MILLIONS)(a) Reflects a pro forma adjustment to the net interest income amount included in the Statement of Income to permit comparisons of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets.(b) For the three months ended June 30, 1999 and June 30, 1998, the annualized rate for available-for-sale securities based on historical cost was 5.61% and 6.31%, respectively.(c) Includes securities sold but not yet purchased and structured notes. -37-  38 THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND RATES (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT INTEREST AND RATES; IN MILLIONS)(a) Reflects a pro forma adjustment to the net interest income amount included in the Statement of Income to permit comparisons of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets.(b) For the six months ended June 30, 1999 and June 30, 1998, the annualized rate for available-for-sale securities based on historical cost was 5.69% and 6.43%, respectively.(c) Includes securities sold but not yet purchased and structured notes. -38-  39 THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) -39-  40 GLOSSARY OF TERMSThe page numbers included after each definition represent the pages in this Form10-Q where the term is primarily used.1998 Annual Report: Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,1998. (Pages 7-10, 13, 25, 27-33, 35, 41, 46)Asset/Liability Management ("ALM"): The management of the sensitivity of Chase'sincome to changes in market interest rates. (Pages 8, 9, 28, 30-32)BPV: Basis Point Value. This measurement quantifies the change in the value ofChase's non-trading balance sheet positions (interest rate risk) that wouldresult from a 1 basis point change in interest rates. (Page 31)Cash Operating Earnings: Operating earnings excluding the impact of amortizationof goodwill and certain intangibles. (Pages 10-18, 36)Chase Texas: Chase Bank of Texas, National Association. (Page 9)Chase USA: Chase Manhattan Bank USA, National Association. (Page 9)Derivative and Foreign Exchange ("FX") Contracts: Interest rate swaps, forwardrate agreements, futures, forwards, options, debt, equity, commodity and othercontracts used for asset/liability management or trading purposes. Theinstruments represent contracts with counterparties where payments are made toor from the counterparty based upon specific interest rates, currency levels,other market rates, or on terms predetermined by the contract. (Pages 9, 25-26,28)Efficiency Ratio: Noninterest expense as a percentage of the total of netinterest income and noninterest revenue (excluding restructuring costs,foreclosed property expense, special items and costs associated with the REIT).(Pages 12-15, 17, 23, 36)FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board. (Page 35)Managed Credit Card Receivables or Managed Basis: Consistent with industrypractice, Chase uses this terminology to define its credit card receivables onthe balance sheet plus securitized credit card receivables. (Pages 25-26, 36)Net Yield on Interest-Earning Assets: The average rate for interest-earningassets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds. (Pages 21, 37-38)Operating Basis or Operating Earnings: Reported results excluding the impact ofcredit card securitizations, restructuring costs and special items. (Pages10-14, 18-19, 23, 36)REIT: A real estate investment trust subsidiary of Chase. (Pages 23-24)SFAS: Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.SFAS 107: "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments." (Page 8)SFAS 115: "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."(Pages 7-9)SFAS 131: "Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."(Page 10)SFAS 133: "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (Page35)SFAS 137: "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133, an amendment of FASBStatement No. 133." (Page 35)Shareholder Value Added ("SVA"): Represents operating earnings excluding theamortization of goodwill and certain intangibles (i.e., cash operating earnings)minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital. (Pages 10, 12-14,16, 32, 36)Special Items: The 1999 second quarter included a gain on the sale of One NewYork Plaza and on the sale of branches in Beaumont, Texas as well as a specialcontribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation. There were no special items inthe 1999 first quarter or for the first six months of 1998. (Pages 10, 12, 19,23, 36)Value-at-Risk ("VAR"): The potential overnight loss from adverse marketmovements. (Page 30)Year 2000: The problem of many existing computer programs not being able torecognize properly a year beginning with "20" instead of "19", as these programsonly use the last two digits to refer to a year.(Pages 18, 23-24, 33-34) -40-  41PART II - OTHER INFORMATIONItem 1. Legal Proceedings ----------------- The following discussion of certain legal proceedings focuses primarily on developments since December 31, 1998 and updates the discussion entitled "Legal Proceedings" appearing on page 6 of Chase's 1998 Annual Report. As previously reported in the 1998 Annual Report, in 50-Off Stores, Inc. v. Banque Paribas (Suisse) S.A., a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas alleging conversion of shares of common stock held in a custody account of The Chase Manhattan Bank, judgment was entered against the Bank for $148.6 million in punitive and compensatory damages. On appeal by Chase, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the punitive damage award of $138 million, resulting in a remaining award of $10.6 million in compensatory damages, plus post-judgment interest. Both the plaintiff and Chase filed petitions for rehearing with the Fifth Circuit, which petitions were denied. Chase does not expect the final outcome of the lawsuit to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position. In June 1999, Sumitomo Corporation filed a lawsuit against The Chase Manhattan Bank in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that during the period from 1994 to 1996, the Bank assisted a Sumitomo employee in making copper trades by funding unauthorized loans to the Sumitomo employee. The complaint alleges that the Bank knew the employee did not have authority to enter into the transactions on behalf of Sumitomo. The complaint asserts claims under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ("RICO") and New York common law and alleges damages of $532 million (subject to trebling under RICO), plus punitive damages. Chase believes this action is without merit and intends to contest it vigorously.Item 2. Sales of Unregistered Common Stock ---------------------------------- During the second quarter of 1999, shares of common stock of Chase were issued in transactions exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof. On April 1, 1999, 317 shares of common stock were issued to retired directors who had deferred receipt of such common stock pursuant to the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. -41-
