Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisINTRODUCTION&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company incorporated under Delawarelaw in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest bankinginstitutions in the United States of America (&#147;U.S.&#148;), with $2.1 trillion in assets, $176.1&nbsp;billionin stockholders' equity and operations in more than 60 countries as of December&nbsp;31, 2010. The Firmis a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercialbanking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. Under the J.P.Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world'smost prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association(&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#148;), a national bank with branches in 23 states in the U.S.; and ChaseBank USA, National Association (&#147;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#148;), a national bank that is the Firm's creditcard issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC(&#147;JPMorgan Securities&#148;; formerly J.P. Morgan SecuritiesInc.), the Firm's U.S. investment bankingfirm.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six businesssegments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise theInvestment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management segments.The Firm's consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments. Adescription of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to theirrespective client bases, follows.Investment BankJ.P. Morgan is one of the world's leading investment banks, with deep client relationships andbroad product capabilities. The clients of the Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) are corporations, financialinstitutions, governments and institutional investors. The Firm offers a full range of investmentbanking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporatestrategy and structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management,market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments, prime brokerage, and research.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;) serves consumers and businesses through personal service at bankbranches and through ATMs, online banking and telephone banking, as well as through autodealerships and school financial-aid offices. Customers can use more than 5,200 bank branches(third-largest nationally) and 16,100 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online andmobile banking around the clock. More than 28,900 branch salespeople assist customers with checkingand savings accounts, mortgages, home equity and business loans, and investmentsacross the23-state footprint from New York and Florida to California. Consumers also can obtain loans throughmore than 16,200 auto dealerships and 2,200 schools and universities nationwide.Card ServicesCard Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is one of the nation's largest credit card issuers, with over $137&nbsp;billion inloans and over 90&nbsp;million open accounts. Customers used Chase cards to meet $313&nbsp;billion of theirspending needs in 2010. Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase Paymentech Solutions, CS isa global leader in payment processing and merchant acquiring.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) delivers extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedicatedservice to nearly 24,000 clients nationally, including corporations, municipalities, financialinstitutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenue generally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to$2&nbsp;billion, and nearly 35,000 real estate investors/owners. CB partners with the Firm's otherbusinesses to provide comprehensive solutions, including lending, treasury services, investmentbanking and asset management to meet its clients' domestic and international financial needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a global leader in transaction, investment andinformation services. TSS is one of the world's largest cash management providers and a leadingglobal custodian. Treasury Services (&#147;TS&#148;) provides cash management, trade, wholesale card andliquidity products and services to small- and mid-sized companies, multinational corporations,financial institutions and government entities. TS partners with IB, CB, RFS and Asset Managementbusinesses to serve clients firmwide. Certain TS revenue is included in other segments' results.Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clears and services securities, cash and alternativeinvestments for investors and broker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally.Asset ManagementAsset Management (&#147;AM&#148;), with assets under supervision of $1.8 trillion, is a global leader ininvestment and wealth management. AM clients include institutions, retail investors andhigh-net-worth individuals in every major market throughout the world. AM offers global investmentmanagement in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidityproducts, including money-market instruments and bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate,banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporationsand individuals. The majority of AM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OVERVIEW&nbsp;This executive overview of MD&A highlights selected information and maynot contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For acomplete description of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity,credit, operational and market risks, and the critical accountingestimates, affecting the Firm andits various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Economic environmentThe business environment in 2010 continued to improve, as signs of growth and stability returned toboth the global capital markets and the U.S. economy. The year began with a continuation of thetrends seen at the end of 2009: although unemployment had reached 10%, its highest level since1983, signs were emerging that deterioration in the labor markets was abating and economic activitywas beginning to expand. The housing sector also showed some signs of improvement, which was helpedby a new round of home-buyer credits. Overall, during 2010, the business environment continued toimprove and the U.S. economy grew, though the pace of growth was not sufficient to meaningfullyaffect unemployment which, at year-end 2010, stood at 9.4%. Consumer spending expanded at amoderate rate early in the year and accelerated as the year progressed, as households continued toreduce debt and increase savings. Businesses began to spend aggressively, with outlays forequipment and software expanding at a double-digit pace over the course of the year. Additionally,businesses cautiously added to payrolls in every month of the year.Low inflation allowed the Federal Reserve to maintain its accommodative stance throughout 2010, inorder to help promote the U.S. economic recovery. The Federal Reserve maintained the target rangefor the federal funds rate at zero to one-quarter percent and continued to indicate that economicconditions were likely to warrant a low federal funds rate for an extended period.The U.S. and global economic recovery paused briefly during the second quarter of 2010 as concernsarose that European countries would have to take measures to address their worsening fiscalpositions. Equity markets fell sharply, and bond yields tumbled. Concerns about the developedeconomies, particularly in Europe, persisted throughout 2010 and have continued into 2011.However, fears that the U.S. recovery was faltering proved unfounded, and the U.S. economycontinued to grow over the second half of the year. At the same time, growth in the emergingeconomies remained robust. During the fourth quarter, the Federal Reserve announced a program topurchase longer-term Treasury securities through 2011 in order to restrain interest rates and boostthe economy. These developments, combined with record U.S. corporate profit margins and rapidinternational growth, continued to support stock markets as financial market conditions improvedand risk spreads continued to narrow.Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseBusiness overviewAgainst the backdrop of the improvement in the business environment during the year, JPMorgan Chasereported full-year 2010 record net income of $17.4&nbsp;billion, or $3.96 per share, on net revenue of $102.7billion. Net income was up 48% compared with net income of $11.7&nbsp;billion, or $2.26 per share, in2009. Return on common equity was 10% for the year, compared with 6% for the prior year.The increase in net income for 2010 was driven by a lower provision for credit losses and highernet revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. The lower provision for credit lossesreflected improvements in both the consumer and wholesale provisions. The increase in net revenuewas due predominantly to higher securities gains in the Corporate/Private Equity segment, increasedother income and increased principal transactions revenue, partially offset by lower credit cardincome. The increase in noninterest expense was largely due to higher litigation expense.JPMorgan Chase benefited from an improvement in the credit environment during 2010. Compared with2009, delinquency trends were more favorable and estimated losses were lower in the consumerbusinesses, although they remained at elevated levels. The credit quality of the commercial andindustrial loan portfolio across the Firm's wholesale businesses improved. In addition, for theyear, net charge-offs were lower across all businesses, though the level of net charge-offs in theFirm's mortgage portfolio remained very high and continued to be a significant drag on returns.These positive credit trends resulted in reductions in the allowance for credit losses in CardServices, the loan portfolio in Retail Financial Services (excluding purchased credit-impairedloans), and in the Investment Bank and Commercial Banking. Nevertheless, the allowance for loanlosses associated with the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio in&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRetailFinancial Services increased, reflecting an increase in estimated future credit losses largelyrelated to home equity, and, to a lesser extent, option ARM loans. Total firmwide credit reservesat December&nbsp;31, 2010, were $33.0&nbsp;billion, resulting in a firmwide loan loss coverage ratio of 4.5%of total loans.Strong client relationships and continued investments for growth resulted in good results acrossmost of the Firm's businesses, including record revenue and net income in Commercial Banking,record revenue in Asset Management and solid results across most other businesses. For the year,the Investment Bank ranked #1 for Global Investment Banking Fees; Retail Financial Services addedmore than 150 new branches and 5,000 salespeople, and opened more than 1.5&nbsp;million net new checkingaccounts; Card Services rolled out new products and opened 11.3&nbsp;million new accounts; Treasury &Securities Services grew assets under custody to $16.1 trillion; and Asset Management reportedrecord long-term AUM net inflows of $69&nbsp;billion.The Firm also continued to strengthen its balance sheet during 2010, ending the year with a Tier 1Common ratio of 9.8% and a Tier 1 Capital ratio of 12.1%. Total stockholders' equity at December31, 2010, was $176.1&nbsp;billion.Throughout 2010, JPMorgan Chase continued to support the economic recovery by providing capital,financing and liquidity to its clients in the U.S. and around the world. During the year, the Firmloaned or raised capital of more than $1.4 trillion for its clients, which included more than $10billion of credit provided to more than 250,000 small businesses in the U.S., an increase of morethan 50% over 2009. JPMorgan Chase also made substantial investments in the future of itsbusinesses, including hiring more than 8,000 people in the U.S. alone. The Firm remains committedto helping homeowners and preventing foreclosures. Since the beginning of 2009, the Firm hasoffered 1,038,000 trial modifications to struggling homeowners. Of the 285,000 modifications that the Firm hascompleted, more than half were modified under Chase programs, and the remainder were offered undergovernment-sponsored or agency programs.Although the Firm continues to face challenges, there are signs of stability and growth returningto both the global capital markets and the U.S. economy. The Firm intends to continue to innovateand invest in the products that support and serve its clients and the communities where it doesbusiness.The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each business segment compared with theprior year and presents results on a managed basis. Managed basis starts with the reported U.S.GAAP results and, for each line of business and the Firm as a whole, includes certainreclassifications to present total net revenue on a tax-equivalent basis. Effective January&nbsp;1,2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance that required it to consolidate its Firm-sponsoredcredit card securitization trusts; as a result, reported and managed basis relating to credit cardsecuritizations are equivalent for periods beginning after January&nbsp;1, 2010. Prior to the adoptionof this accounting guidance, in 2009 and all otherprior periods, U.S. GAAP results for CS and theFirm were also adjusted for certain reclassifications that assumed credit card loans that had beensecuritized and sold by CS remained on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These adjustments (&#147;managedbasis&#148;) had no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.For more information about managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used bymanagement to evaluate the performance of each line of business, seepages 64&#150;66 of this AnnualReport.Investment Bank net income decreased from the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and highernoninterest expense, partially offset by a benefit from the provision for credit losses and gainsof $509&nbsp;million from the widening of the Firm's credit spread on certain structured and derivativeliabilities (compared with losses of $2.3&nbsp;billion on the tightening of the spread on thoseliabilities in the prior year). The decrease in net revenue was driven by a decline in Fixed IncomeMarkets revenue as well as lower investment banking fees. The provision for credit losses was abenefit in 2010, compared with an expense in 2009, and reflected a reduction in the allowance forloan losses, largely related to net repayments and loan sales. Noninterest expense increased,driven by higher noncompensation expense, including increased litigation reserves, as well ashigher compensation expense, including the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax.Retail Financial Services net income increased significantly from the prior year, driven by a lowerprovision for credit losses, partially offset by increased noninterest expense and lower netrevenue. Net revenue decreased, driven by lower deposit-related fees (including the impact of thelegislative changes related to non-sufficient funds and overdraft fees), and lower loan balances.These decreases were partially offset by a shift to wider-spread deposit products, and growth indebit card income and auto operating lease income. The provision forcredit losses decreased from the 2009 level, reflecting improved delinquency trends and reduced netcharge-offs. The provision also reflected an increase in the allowance for loan losses for thepurchased credit-impaired portfolio, partially offset by a reduction in the allowance for loanlosses, predominantly for the mortgage loan portfolios. Noninterest expense increased from theprior year, driven by higher default-related expense for mortgage loans serviced, and sales forceincreases in Business Banking and bank branches.Card Services reported net income compared with a net loss in the prior year, as a lower provisionfor credit losses was partially offset by lower net revenue. The decrease in net revenue was drivenby a decline in net interest income, reflecting lower average loan balances, the impact oflegislative changes and a decreased level of fees. These decreases were partially offset by adecrease in revenue reversals associated with lower net charge-offs. The provision for creditlosses decreased from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-offs and a reduction in theallowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses. The prior-year provision included anincrease to the allowance for loan losses. Noninterest expense increased due to higher marketingexpense.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCommercial Banking reported record net income, driven by a reduction in the provision forcredit losses and record net revenue. The increase in net revenue was driven by growth in liabilitybalances, wider loan spreads, higher net gains from asset sales, higher lending-related fees, animprovement in the market conditions impacting the value of investments held at fair value, andhigher investment banking fees; these were largely offset by spread compression on liabilityproducts and lower loan balances. Results also included the impact of the purchase of a $3.5billion loan portfolio during the third quarter of 2010. The provision for credit losses decreasedfrom 2009 and reflected a reduction in the allowance for credit losses, primarily due tostabilization in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and refinements to credit loss estimates.Noninterest expense increased slightly, reflecting higher headcount-related expense.Treasury and Securities Services net income decreased from the prior year, driven by highernoninterest expense, partially offset by a benefit from the provision for credit losses and highernet revenue. Worldwide Securities Services net revenue was relatively flat, as higher market levelsand net inflows of assets under custody were offset by lower spreads in securities lending, lowervolatility on foreign exchange, and lower balances on liability products. Treasury Services netrevenue was relatively flat, as lower spreads on liability products were offset by higher tradeloan and card product volumes. Assets under custody grew to $16.1 trillion during 2010, an 8% increase.Noninterest expense for TSS increased, driven by continued investment in new productplatforms, primarily related to international expansion, and higher performance-based compensationexpense.Asset Management net income increased from the prior year on record revenue, largely offset byhigher noninterest expense. The growth in net revenue was driven by the effect of higher marketlevels, net inflows to products with higher margins, higher loan originations, higher deposit andloan balances, and higher performance fees, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads. Assetsunder supervision increased 8% during 2010 driven by the effect of higher market valuations, recordnet inflows of $69&nbsp;billion to long-term products, and inflows in custody and brokerage products,offset partially by net outflows from liquidity products. Noninterest expense increased due tohigher headcount and performance-based compensation.Corporate/Private Equity net income decreased from the prior year, driven by higher noninterestexpense partially offset by higher net revenue. The increase in net revenue reflected highersecurities gains, primarily associated with actions taken to reposition the Corporate investmentsecurities portfolio in connection with managing the Firm's structural interest rate risk, andhigher private equity gains. These gains were partially offset by lower net interest income fromthe investment portfolio. The increase in noninterest expense was due to an increase in litigationreserves, including those for mortgage-related matters, partially offset by the absence of a $675million FDIC special assessment in 2009.2011 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. As noted above,these risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from thoseset forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 157 and RiskFactors on pages 5&#150;12 of this Annual Report.JPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2011 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S.economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment,client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other countrieswhere the Firm does business. Each of these linked factors will affect the performance of the Firmand its lines of business. Economic and macroeconomic factors, such as market and credit trends,customer behavior, client business strategies and competition, are all expected to affect theFirm's businesses. The outlook for RFS and CS, in particular, reflects the expected effect ofcurrent economic trends in the U.S relating to high unemployment levels and the continuing stressand uncertainty in the housing markets. The Firm's wholesale businesses will be affected by marketlevels and volumes, which are volatile and quickly subject to change.In theMortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending business within RFS, management expectsmortgage fees and related income to be $1&nbsp;billion or less forthe first quarter of 2011, given the levels of mortgage interestrates and production volumes experienced year-to-date. If mortgageinterest rates remain at current levels or rise in the future, loanproduction and margins could continue to be negatively affectedresulting in lower revenue for the full year 2011. In addition, revenue couldcontinue to be negatively affected by continued elevated levels of repurchases of mortgagespreviously sold, predominantly to U.S. government-sponsored entities (&#147;GSEs&#148;). Management estimatesthat realized repurchase losses could total approximately $1.2&nbsp;billion in 2011. In addition, theFirm is dedicating significant resources to address, correct and enhance its mortgage loanforeclosure procedures and is cooperating with various state and federal investigations into itsprocedures. As a result, the Firm expects to incur additional costs and expenses in resolving theseissues.In the Real Estate Portfolios business within RFS, management believes that, based on the currentoutlook for delinquencies and loss severity, it is possible that total quarterly net charge-offscould be approximately $1.2&nbsp;billion during 2011. Given current origination and production levels,combined with management's current estimate of portfolio runoff levels, the residential real estateportfolio is expected to decline by approximately 10% to 15% annually for the foreseeable future.The annual reductions in the residential real estate portfolio are expected to reduce net interestincome in each period, including a reduction of approximately $700&nbsp;million in 2011 from the 2010level; however, over time the reduction in net interest income is expected to be more than offsetby an improvement in credit costs and lower expenses. As the portfolio continues to run off,management anticipates that approximately $1.0&nbsp;billion of capital may become available for&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisredeployment each year, subject to the capital requirements associated with the remainingportfolio.Also, in RFS, management expects noninterest expense in 2011 to remain modestly above 2010 levels,reflecting investments in new branch builds and sales force hires, as well as continued elevatedservicing-, default- and foreclosed asset-related costs.In CS, management expects end-of-period outstandings for the Chase portfolio (excluding theWashington Mutual portfolio) to continue to decline in 2011. This decline may be as much as $10billion in the first quarter, reflecting both continued portfolio run-off and seasonal activity.The decline in the Chase portfolio is expected to bottom out in the third quarter of 2011, and bythe end of 2011, outstandings in the portfolio are anticipated to be approximately $120&nbsp;billion andreflect a better mix of customers. The Washington Mutual portfolio declined to approximately $14billion at the end of 2010, from $20&nbsp;billion at the end of 2009. Management estimates that theWashington Mutual portfolio could decline to $10&nbsp;billion by the end of 2011. The effect of suchreductions in the Chase and Washington Mutual portfolios is expected to reduce 2011 net interestincome in CS by approximately $1.4&nbsp;billion from the 2010 level.The net charge-off rates for both the Chase and Washington Mutual credit card portfolios areanticipated to continue to improve. If current delinquency trends continue, the net charge-off ratefor the Chase portfolio (excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio) could be below 6.5% in the firstquarter of 2011.Despite these positive economic trends, results for RFS and CS will depend on the economicenvironment. Although the positive economic data seen in 2010 seemed to imply that the U.S. economywas not falling back into recession, high unemployment rates and the difficult housing market havebeen persistent. Even as consumer lending net charge-offs and delinquencies have improved, theconsumer credit portfolio remains under stress. Further declines in U.S. housing prices andincreases in the unemployment rate remain possible; if this were to occur, results for both RFS andCS could be adversely affected.In IB, TSS and AM, revenue will be affected by market levels, volumes and volatility, which willinfluence client flows and assets under management, supervision and custody. In addition, IB and CBresults will continue to be affected by the credit environment, which will influence levels ofcharge-offs, repayments and provision for credit losses.In Private Equity (within the Corporate/Private Equity segment), earnings will likely continue tobe volatile and be influenced by capital markets activity, market levels, the performance of thebroader economy and investment-specific issues. Corporate's net interest income levels willgenerally trend with the size and duration of the investment securities portfolio. Corporate netincome (excluding Private Equity, and excluding merger-related items, material litigation expensesand significant nonrecurring items, if any) is anticipated to trend toward a level of approximately$300&nbsp;million per quarter.Furthermore, continued repositioning of the investment securities portfolio in Corporate couldresult in modest downward pressure on the Firm's net interest margin in the first quarter of 2011.Regarding regulatory reform, JPMorgan Chase intends to continue to work with the Firm's regulators as theyproceed with the extensive rulemaking required to implement financial reform. The Firm willcontinue to devote substantial resources to achieving implementation of regulatory reforms in a waythat preserves the value the Firm delivers to its clients.Management and the Firm's Board of Directors continually evaluate ways to deploy the Firm's strongcapital base in order to enhance shareholder value. Such alternatives could include the repurchaseof common stock, increasing the common stock dividend and pursuing alternative investmentopportunities. Management and the Board will continue to assess and make decisions regarding thesealternatives, as appropriate, over the course of the year.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS&nbsp;This following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's ConsolidatedResults of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&nbsp;31, 2010.Factors that related primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail withinthat business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm thataffect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 149&#150;154 of this Annual Report.Revenue2010 compared with 2009Total net revenue for 2010 was $102.7&nbsp;billion, up by $2.3&nbsp;billion, or 2%, from 2009. Results for2010 were driven by a higher level of securities gains and private equity gains inCorporate/Private Equity, higher asset management fees in AM and administration fees in TSS, andhigher other income in several businesses, partially offset by lower credit card income.Investment banking fees decreased from 2009 due to lower equity underwriting and advisory fees,partially offset by higher debt underwriting fees. Competitive markets combined with flatindustry-wide equity underwriting and completed M&A volumes, resulted in lower equity underwritingand advisory fees; while strong industry-wide loan syndication and high-yield bond volumes droverecord debt underwriting fees in IB. For additional information on investment banking fees, whichare primarily recorded in IB, see IB segment results on pages69&#150;71 of thisAnnual Report.Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from the Firm's trading and privateequity investing activities, increased compared with 2009. This was driven by the Private Equitybusiness, which had significant private equity gains in 2010, compared with a small loss in 2009,reflecting improvements in market conditions. Trading revenue decreased, reflecting lower resultsin Corporate, offset by higher revenue in IB primarily reflecting gains from the widening of theFirm's credit spread on certain structured and derivative liabilities. For additional informationon principal transactions revenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results on pages69&#150;71 and 89&#150;90, respectively, and Note 7 on pages 199&#150;200 of this Annual Report.Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased in 2010 from 2009 levels, reflecting lowerdeposit-related fees in RFS associated, in part, with newly-enacted legislation related tonon-sufficient funds and overdraft fees; this was partially offset by higher lending-relatedservice fees in IB, primarily from growth in business volume, and in CB, primarily from highercommitment and letter-of-credit fees. For additional information on lending- and deposit-relatedfees, which are mostly recorded in IB, RFS, CB and TSS, see segmentresults for IB on pages 69&#150;71,RFS on pages 72&#150;78, CB on pages 82&#150;83 and TSS on pages84&#150;85 of this Annual Report.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue increased from 2009. The increase largelyreflected higher asset management fees in AM, driven by the effect of higher market levels, netinflows to products with higher margins and higher performance fees; and higher administration feesin TSS, reflecting the effects of higher market levels and net inflows of assets under custody.This increase was partially offset by lower brokerage commissions in IB, as a result of lowermarket volumes. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see the segmentdiscussions for AM on pages 86&#150;88 and TSS on pages 84&#150;85 of this Annual Report.Securities gains were significantly higher in 2010 compared with 2009, resulting primarily from therepositioning of the portfolio in response to changes in the interest rate environment and torebalance exposure. For additional information on securities gains, which are mostly recorded inthe Firm's Corporate segment, see the Corporate/Private Equitysegment discussion on pages 89&#150;90of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased in 2010 compared with 2009, driven by higher mortgageproduction revenue, reflecting increased mortgage origination volumes in RFS and AM, and widermargins, particularly in RFS. This increase was largely offset by higher repurchase losses in RFS(recorded as contra-revenue), which were attributable to higher estimated losses related torepurchase demands, predominantly from GSEs. For additional informationon mortgage fees and related income, which is recorded primarily inRFS, see RFS's Mortgage Banking, Auto& Other Consumer Lending discussion on pages 74&#150;77 of this Annual Report. For additionalinformation on repurchase losses, see the repurchase liabilitydiscussion on pages 98&#150;101 and Note 30on pages 275&#150;280 of this Annual Report.Credit card income decreased during 2010, predominantly due to the impact of the accountingguidance related to VIEs, effective January&nbsp;1, 2010, that required the Firm to consolidate theassets and liabilities of its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. Adoption of the newguidance resulted in the elimination of all servicing fees received from Firm-sponsored credit cardsecuritization trusts (which was offset by related increases in net&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisinterest income and theprovision for credit losses, and the elimination of securitization income/(losses) in otherincome). Lower income from other fee-based products also contributed to the decrease in credit cardincome. Excluding the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance, credit card incomeincreased in 2010, reflecting higher customer charge volume on credit and debit cards. For a moredetailed discussion of the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance on theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAPFinancial Measures on pages 64&#150;66 of this Annual Report. For additional information on credit cardincome, see the CS and RFS segment results on pages 79&#150;81, andpages 72&#150;78, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Other income increased in 2010, largely due to the write-down of securitization interests during2009 and higher auto operating lease income in RFS.Net interest income was relatively flat in 2010 compared with 2009. The effect of lower loanbalances was predominantly offset by the effect of the adoption of the new accounting guidancerelated to VIEs (which increased net interest income by approximately $5.8&nbsp;billion in 2010).Excluding the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance, net interest income decreased,driven by lower average loan balances, primarily in CS, RFS and IB, reflecting the continued runoffof the credit card balances and residential real estate loans, and net repayments and loan sales;lower yields and fees on credit card receivables, reflecting the impact of legislative changes; andlower yields on securities in Corporate resulting from investment portfolio repositioning. TheFirm's average interest-earning assets were $1.7 trillion in 2010, and the net yield on thoseassets, on a FTE basis, was 3.06%, a decrease of 6 basis points from 2009. For a more detaileddiscussion of the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance related to VIEs on theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAPFinancial Measures on pages 64&#150;66 of this Annual Report. For further information on the impact ofthe legislative changes on the Consolidated Statements of Income, see CS discussion on Credit CardLegislation on page 79 of this Annual Report.2009 compared with 2008Total net revenue was $100.4&nbsp;billion, up by $33.2&nbsp;billion, or 49%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by higher principal transactions revenue, primarily related to improvedperformance across most fixed income and equity products, and the absence of net markdowns onlegacy leveraged lending and mortgage positions in IB, as well as higher levels of trading gainsand investment securities income in Corporate/Private Equity. Results also benefited from theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to increases in net interest income,lending- and deposit-related fees, and mortgage fees and related income. Lastly, higher investmentbanking fees also contributed to revenue growth. These increases in revenue were offset partiallyby reduced fees and commissions from the effect of lower market levels on assets under managementand custody, and the absence of proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial publicoffering in the first quarter of 2008.Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, due to higher equity and debt underwritingfees. For a further discussion of investment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in IB, seeIB segment results on pages 69&#150;71 of this Annual Report.Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from trading and private equity investingactivities, was significantly higher compared with the prior year. Trading revenue increased,driven by improved performance across most fixed income and equity products; modest net gains onlegacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6billion in the prior year; and gains on trading positions in Corporate/Private Equity, comparedwith losses in the prior year of $1.1&nbsp;billion on markdowns of Federal National Mortgage Association(&#147;Fannie Mae&#148;) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#147;Freddie Mac&#148;) preferred securities.These increases in revenue were offset partially by an aggregate loss of $2.3&nbsp;billion from thetightening of the Firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities and derivatives, comparedwith gains of $2.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year from widening spreads on these liabilities andderivatives. The Firm's private equity investments produced a slight net loss in 2009, asignificant improvement from a larger net loss in 2008. For a further discussion of principaltransactions revenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equity segmentresults on pages 69&#150;71 and89&#150;90, respectively, and Note 7 on pages 199&#150;200 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsLending- and deposit-related fees rose from the prior year, predominantly reflecting the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction and organic growth in both lending- and deposit-related fees inRFS, CB, IB and TSS. For a further discussion of lending- and deposit-related fees, which aremostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFS segment results onpages 72&#150;78, the TSS segmentresults on pages 84&#150;85, and the CB segment results on pages82&#150;83 of this Annual Report.The decline in asset management, administration and commissions revenue compared with the prioryear was largely due to lower asset management fees in AM from the effect of lower market levels.Also contributing to the decrease were lower administration fees in TSS, driven by the effect ofmarket depreciation on certain custody assets and lower securities lending balances; and lowerbrokerage commissions revenue in IB, predominantly related to lower transaction volume. Foradditional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions for TSS and AM onpages 84&#150;85 and pages 86&#150;88, respectively, of this Annual Report.Securities gains were lower in 2009 and included credit losses related to other-than-temporaryimpairment and lower gains on the sale of MasterCard shares totaling $241&nbsp;million in 2009, comparedwith $668&nbsp;million in 2008. These decreases were offset partially by higher gains from repositioningthe Corporate investment securities portfolio in connection with managing the Firm's structuralinterest rate risk. For a further discussion of securities gains, which are mostly recorded inCorporate/Private Equity, see the Corporate/Private Equity segmentdiscussion on pages 89&#150;90 ofthis Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased slightly from the prior year, as higher net mortgageservicing revenue was largely offset by lower production revenue. The increase in net mortgageservicing revenue was driven by growth in average third-party loans serviced as a result of theWashington Mutual transaction. Mortgage production revenue declined from the prior year, reflectingan increase in estimated losses from the repurchase of previously-sold loans, offset partially bywider margins on new originations. For a discussion of mortgage fees and related income, which isrecorded primarily in RFS, see RFS's Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending discussion on pages74&#150;77 of this Annual Report.Credit card income, which includes the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, decreasedslightly compared with the prior year, due to lower servicing fees earned in connection with CSsecuritization activities, largely as a result of higher credit losses. The decrease was partiallyoffset by wider loan margins on securitized credit card loans; higher merchant servicing revenuerelated to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture; and higher interchangeincome. For a further discussion of credit card income, see the CSsegment results on pages 79&#150;81of this Annual Report.Other income decreased from the prior year, due predominantly to the absence of $1.5&nbsp;billion inproceeds from the sale of Visa shares as part of its initial public offering in the first quarterof 2008; a $1.0&nbsp;billion gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture inthe fourth quarter of 2008; and lower net securitization income in CS. These items were partiallyoffset by a $464&nbsp;million charge recognized in 2008 related to the repurchase of auction-ratesecurities at par; the absence of a $423&nbsp;million loss incurred in the second quarter of 2008,reflecting the Firm's 49.4% share of Bear Stearns's losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008; and highervaluations on certain investments, including seed capital in AM.Net interest income increased from the prior year, driven by the Washington Mutual transaction,which contributed to higher average loans and deposits. The Firm's interest-earning assets were$1.7 trillion, and the net yield on those assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent (&#147;FTE&#148;) basis, was3.12%, an increase of 25 basis points from 2008. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, the increase in net interest income in 2009 was driven by a higher level of investmentsecurities, as well as a wider net interest margin, which reflected the overall decline in marketinterest rates during the year. Declining interest rates had a positive effect on the net interestmargin, as rates paid on the Firm's interest-bearing liabilities decreased faster relative to thedecline in rates earned on interest-earning assets. These increases in net interest income wereoffset partially by lower loan balances, which included the effect of lower customer demand,repayments and charge-offs.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisProvision for credit losses2010 compared with 2009The provision for credit losses declined by $15.4&nbsp;billion compared with 2009, due to decreases inboth the consumer and wholesale provisions. The decreases in the consumer provisions reflectedreductions in the allowance for credit losses for mortgages and credit cards as a result ofimproved delinquency trends and lower estimated losses. This was partially offset by an increase inthe allowance for credit losses associated with the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impairedloans portfolio, resulting from increased estimated future credit losses. The decrease in thewholesale provision in 2010 reflected a reduction in the allowance for credit losses, predominantlyas a result of continued improvement in the credit quality of the commercial and industrial loanportfolio, reduced net charge-offs, and net repayments and loan sales. For a more detaileddiscussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the segment discussionsfor RFS on pages 72&#150;78, CS on pages 79&#150;81, IB on pages69&#150;71 and CB on pages 82&#150;83, and theAllowance for Credit Losses section on pages 139&#150;141 of this Annual Report.2009 compared with 2008The provision for credit losses in 2009 rose by $11.0&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year,predominantly due to a significant increase in the consumer provision. The prior year included a$1.5&nbsp;billion charge to conform Washington Mutual's allowance for loan losses, which affected boththe consumer and wholesale portfolios. For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge isexcluded. The consumer provision reflected additions to the allowance for loan losses for the homeequity, mortgage and credit card portfolios, as weak economic conditions, housing price declinesand higher unemployment rates continued to drive higher estimated losses for these portfolios.Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6&nbsp;billion provision relatedto estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. Thewholesale provision increased from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the creditenvironment in 2009 compared with the prior year. For a more detailed discussion of the loanportfolio and the allowance for loan losses, see the segmentdiscussions for RFS on pages 72&#150;78,CS on pages 79&#150;81, IB on pages 69&#150;71 and CB on pages82&#150;83, and the Allowance for Credit Lossessection on pages 139&#150;141 of this Annual Report.Noninterest expense2010 compared with 2009Total noninterest expense for 2010 was $61.2&nbsp;billion, up by$8.8&nbsp;billion, or 17%, from 2009. The increase was driven by higher noncompensation expense, largelydue to higher litigation expense, and the effect of investments in the businesses.Compensation expense increased from the prior year, predominantly due to higher salary expenserelated to investments in the businesses, including additional sales staff in RFS and clientadvisors in AM, and the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax.In addition to the aforementioned higher litigation expense, which was largely for mortgage-relatedmatters in Corporate and IB, the increase in noncompensation expense was driven by higher marketingexpense in CS; higher professional services expense, due to continued investments in new productplatforms in the businesses, including those related to international expansion; higherdefault-related expense, including costs associated with foreclosure affidavit-related suspensions(recorded in other expense), for the serviced portfolio in RFS; and higher brokerage, clearing andexchange transaction processing expense in IB. Partially offsetting these increases was the absenceof a $675&nbsp;million FDIC special assessment recognized in 2009. For a further discussion oflitigation expense, see the Litigation reserve discussion in Note 32 pages 282&#150;289 of this AnnualReport. For a discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages 260&#150;263 of thisAnnual Report.There were no merger costs recorded in 2010, compared with merger costs of $481&nbsp;million in 2009.For additional information on merger costs, refer to Note 11 on page 213 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of Contents2009 compared with 2008Total noninterest expense was $52.4&nbsp;billion, up by $8.9&nbsp;billion, or 20%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher performance-basedcompensation expense, higher FDIC-related costs, and increased mortgage servicing anddefault-related expense. These items were offset partially by lower headcount-related expense,including salary and benefits but excluding performance-based incentives, and other noncompensationcosts related to employees.Compensation expense increased in 2009 compared with the prior year, reflecting higherperformance-based incentives, as well as the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excludingthese two items, compensation expense decreased as a result of a reduction in headcount,particularly in the wholesale businesses and in Corporate.Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year, due predominantly to the following: theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction; higher ongoing FDIC insurance premiums and an FDICspecial assessment of $675&nbsp;million recognized in the second quarter of 2009; higher mortgageservicing and default-related expense, which included an increase in foreclosed property expense of$1.2&nbsp;billion; higher litigation costs; and the effect of the dissolution of the Chase PaymentechSolutions joint venture. These increases were partially offset by lower headcount-related expense,particularly in IB, TSS and AM; a decrease in amortization of intangibles, predominantly related topurchased credit card relationships; lower mortgage reinsurance losses; and a decrease in creditcard marketing expense. For a discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages260&#150;263 of this Annual Report.For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11 on page 213 of this Annual Report.Income tax expense2010 compared with 2009The increase in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year was primarily the result ofhigher reported pretax book income, as well as changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S.federal and state and local taxes. These increases were partially offset by increased benefitsassociated with the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to bereinvested indefinitely, as well as tax benefits recognized upon the resolution of tax audits in2010. For additional information on income taxes, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by theFirm on pages 149&#150;154 and Note 27 on pages 271&#150;273 of this Annual Report.2009 compared with 2008The change in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year was primarily the result ofhigher reported pretax income and changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S. federal,state and local taxes. Benefits related to tax-exempt income, business tax credits and tax auditsettlements increased in 2009 relative to 2008; however, the impact of these items on the effectivetax rate was reduced by the significantly higher level of pretax income in 2009. In addition, 2008reflected the realization of benefits of $1.1&nbsp;billion from the release of deferred tax liabilitiesassociated with the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to bereinvested indefinitely.Extraordinary gainOn September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual. Thistransaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting for business combinations.The adjusted net asset value of the banking operations after purchase accounting adjustments washigher than the consideration paid by JPMorgan Chase, resulting in an extraordinary gain. Thepreliminary gain recognized in 2008 was $1.9&nbsp;billion. In the third quarter of 2009, the Firmrecognized an additional $76&nbsp;million extraordinary gain associated with the final purchaseaccounting adjustments for the acquisition. For a further discussion of the Washington Mutualtransaction, see Note 2 on pages 166&#150;170 of the Firm's 2009 Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisEXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM'S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES&nbsp;The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using accounting principlesgenerally accepted in the U.S. (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appear on pages 160&#150;163of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as &#147;reported basis,&#148; provides thereader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year toyear and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financialstatements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm'sresults and the results of the lines of business on a &#147;managed&#148; basis, which is a non-GAAPfinancial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAPresults and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and eachof the business segments) on a FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities andinvestments that receive tax credits is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable totaxable securities and investments. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess thecomparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding incometax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have noimpact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.Prior to January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm's managed-basis presentation also included certainreclassification adjustments that assumed credit card loans securitized by CS remained on thebalance sheet. Effective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance that required theFirm to consolidate its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts. The income, expense andcredit costs associated with these securitization activities are now recorded in the 2010Consolidated Statements of Income in the same classifications that were previously used to reportsuch items on a managed basis. As a result of the consolidation of the credit card securitizationtrusts, reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations are equivalent forperiods beginning after January&nbsp;1, 2010. For additional information on the accounting guidance, seeNote 16 on pages 244&#150;259 of this Annual Report.The presentation in 2009 and 2008 of CS results on a managed basis assumed that credit card loans that had been securitized and sold in accordance with U.S. GAAP remained on the Consolidated BalanceThe following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; Table of ContentsSheets, and that the earnings on the securitized loans were classified in the same manner asthe earnings on retained loans recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase had usedthis managed-basis information to evaluate the credit performance and overall financial performanceof the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations were funded and decisions were made aboutallocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed financial information. Inaddition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both loans onthe Consolidated Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although securitizations result in the saleof credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoing customer relationships,as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, the customer's creditperformance affects both the securitized loans and the loans retained on the Consolidated BalanceSheets. JPMorgan Chase believed that this managed-basis information was useful to investors, as itenabled them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported on theConsolidated Balance Sheets and the Firm's retained interests in securitized loans. For areconciliation of 2009 and 2008 reported to managed basis results for CS, see CS segment results onpages 79&#150;81 of this Annual(Table continued from previous page)Report. For information regarding the securitization process, and loansand residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 16 on pages 244&#150;259 of this Annual Report.Tangible common equity (&#147;TCE&#148;) represents common stockholders' equity (i.e., total stockholders'equity less preferred stock) less identifiable intangible assets (other than mortgage servicingrights (&#147;MSRs&#148;)) and goodwill, net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE, a non-GAAP financialratio, measures the Firm's earnings as a percentage of TCE and is, in management's view, ameaningful measure to assess the Firm's use of equity.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business-segment level, because itbelieves these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about theunderlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and, therefore,facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its competitors. Non-GAAPfinancial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financialmeasures used by other companies.&nbsp;Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both thefollowing U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP measures.Return on common equityNet income* / Average common stockholders' equityReturn on tangible common equity(d)Net income* / Average tangible common equityReturn on assetsReported net income / Total average assetsManaged net income / Total average managed assets(e)(including average securitized credit card receivables)Overhead ratioTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAverage tangible common equityImpact of TARP preferred stock issued to the U.S. TreasuryThe calculation of 2009 net income applicable to common equity included a one-time, noncashreduction of $1.1&nbsp;billion resulting from the repayment of TARP preferred capital. Excluding thisreduction, ROE would have been 7% for 2009. The Firm views adjusted ROE, a non-GAAP financialmeasure, as meaningful because it enables the comparability to prior periods.In addition, the calculated net income applicable to common equity for the year ended December31, 2009, was also affected by the TARP repayment. The following table presents the effect on netincome applicable to common stockholders and the $0.27 reduction to diluted earnings per share(&#147;EPS&#148;) for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009.Other financial measuresThe Firm also discloses the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding homelending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust(&#147;WMMT&#148;). For a further discussion of this credit metric, see Allowance for Credit Losses on pages139&#151;141 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsBUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportablebusiness segments: Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equity segment.The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type ofcustomer served, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated bymanagement. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially astand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment resultsallocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. Business segment reportingmethodologies used by the Firm are discussed below. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions,methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinementsmay be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. The segment resultsreflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business andtransfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to the Treasury group within theCorporate/Private Equity business segment. The allocation process is unique to each businesssegment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of thatsegment's stand-alone peers. This process is overseen by senior management and reviewed by theFirm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;). Business segments may be permitted to retain certaininterest rate exposures subject to management approval.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCapital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peercomparisons, economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capitalassigned to each business is referred to as equity. Effective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm enhancedits line-of-business equity framework to better align equity assigned to each line of business as aresult of the changes anticipated to occur in the business, and in the competitive and regulatorylandscape. The lines of business are now capitalized based on the Tier 1 common standard, ratherthan the Tier 1 capital standard. For a further discussion of the changes, see Capital Management&#150; Line of business equity on page 105 of this Annual Report.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, the costs of thosesupport units are allocated to the business segments. The expense is allocated based on theiractual cost or the lower of actual cost or market, as well as upon usage of the services provided.In contrast, certain other expense related to certain corporate functions, or to certain technologyand operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. Retainedexpense includes: parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alonebusinesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology and operations allocationswith market prices; and other one-time items not aligned with a particular business segment.Segment results &#150; Managed basis(a)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.&nbsp; Table of ContentsINVESTMENT BANK&nbsp;J.P. Morgan is one of the world's leading investment banks, withdeep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The clients of IBare corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutionalinvestors. The Firm offers a full range of investment banking products andservices in all major capital markets, including advising on corporatestrategy and structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management, market-making in cash securities and derivativeinstruments, prime brokerage, and research.Selected income statement dataThe following table provides IB's total net revenue by business segment.2010 compared with 2009Net income was $6.6&nbsp;billion, down 4% compared with the prior year. These results primarilyreflected lower net revenue as well as higher noninterest expense, largely offset by a benefit fromthe provision for credit losses, compared with an expense in the prior year.Net revenue was $26.2&nbsp;billion, compared with $28.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Investment bankingfees were $6.2&nbsp;billion, down 14% from the prior year; these consisted of record debt underwritingfees of $3.1&nbsp;billion (up 18%), equity underwriting fees of $1.6&nbsp;billion (down 40%), and advisoryfees of $1.5&nbsp;billion (down 21%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $15.0&nbsp;billion, compared with$17.6&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The decrease from the prior year largely reflected lower resultsin rates and credit markets, partially offset by gains of $287&nbsp;million from the widening of theFirm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with losses of $1.1&nbsp;billion in theprior year. Equity Markets revenue was $4.8&nbsp;billion, compared with $4.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting solid client revenue, as well as gains of $181&nbsp;million from the widening of the Firm'scredit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with losses of $596&nbsp;million in the prioryear. Credit Portfolio revenue was $243&nbsp;million, primarily reflecting net interest income and feeson loans, partially offset by the negative impact of&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysiscredit spreads on derivative assets and mark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $1.2&nbsp;billion, compared with an expense of $2.3billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a reduction in the allowance forloan losses, largely related to net repayments and loan sales. Net charge-offs were $735&nbsp;million,compared with $1.9&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $17.3&nbsp;billion, up $1.9&nbsp;billion from the prior year, driven by highernoncompensation expense, which included increased litigation reserves, and higher compensationexpense which included the impact of the U.K. Bank Payroll Tax.Return on Equity was 17% on $40.0&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital.2009 compared with 2008Net income was $6.9&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Theseresults reflected significantly higher total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterestexpense and a higher provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $28.1&nbsp;billion, compared with $12.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Investmentbanking fees were up 21% to $7.2&nbsp;billion, consisting of debt underwriting fees of $2.7&nbsp;billion (up24%), equity underwriting fees of $2.6&nbsp;billion (up 51%), and advisory fees of $1.9&nbsp;billion (down7%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $17.6&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting improved performance across most products and modest net gains on legacy leveragedlending and mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. Equity Markets revenue was $4.4&nbsp;billion, up 22% from the prior year, driven by strong clientrevenue across products, particularly prime services, and improvedtrading results. Fixed Income and Equity Markets results also includedlosses of $1.7&nbsp;billion from the tightening of the Firm'scredit spread on certain structured liabilities, compared with gainsof $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Credit Portfoliorevenue was a loss of $1.0&nbsp;billion versus a gain of $860&nbsp;million in the prior year, driven bymark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans compared with gains in the prior year, partiallyoffset by the positive net impact of credit spreads on derivative assets and liabilities.The provision for credit losses was $2.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. The allowance for loan losses toend-of-period loans retained was 8.25%, compared with 4.83% in the prior year. Net charge-offs were$1.9&nbsp;billion, compared with $105&nbsp;million in the prior year. Total nonperforming assets were $4.2billion, compared with $2.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $15.4&nbsp;billion, up $1.6&nbsp;billion, or 11%, from the prior year, driven byhigher performance-based compensation expense, partially offset by lower headcount-related expense.Return on Equity was 21% on $33.0&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital, compared with negative 5%on $26.1&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital in the prior year.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metricsMarket shares and rankings (a)According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1 in GlobalInvestment Banking Fees generated during 2010, based on revenue; #1 in Global Debt, Equity andEquity-related; #1 in Global Syndicated Loans; #2 in Global Long-Term Debt; #3 in Global Equityand Equity-related; and #4 in Global Announced M&A, based on volume.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES&nbsp;Retail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;) serves consumers and businessesthrough personal service at bank branches and through ATMs, online bankingand telephone banking, as well as through auto dealerships and schoolfinancial-aid offices. Customers can use more than 5,200 bank branches(third-largest nationally) and 16,100 ATMs (second-largest nationally), aswell as online and mobile banking around the clock. More than 28,900 branchsalespeople assist customers with checking and savings accounts, mortgages,home equity and business loans, and investments across the 23-state footprintfrom New York and Florida to California. Consumers also can obtain loansthrough more than 16,200 auto dealerships and 2,200 schools and universitiesnationwide.Prior to January&nbsp;1, 2010, RFS was reported as:Retail Banking and Consumer Lending. Commencing in 2010, Consumer Lending is presented as:(1)&nbsp;Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending,and (2)&nbsp;Real Estate Portfolios. Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending comprises mortgageproduction and servicing, auto finance, and student and other lending activities. Real EstatePortfolios comprises residential mortgages and home equity loans, including the purchasedcredit-impaired portfolio acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. These reporting revisionswere intended to provide further clarity around the Real Estate Portfolios. Retail Banking, whichincludes branch banking and business banking activities, was not affected by these reportingrevisions.Selected income statement data2010 compared with 2009Net income was $2.5&nbsp;billion, compared with $97&nbsp;million in the prior year.Net revenue was $31.8&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $936&nbsp;million, or 3%, compared with the prior year. Netinterest income was $19.5&nbsp;billion, down by $964&nbsp;million, or 5%, reflecting the impact of lower loanand deposit balances and narrower loan spreads, partially offset by a shift to wider-spread depositproducts. Noninterest revenue was $12.2&nbsp;billion, flat to the prior year, as lower deposit-relatedfees were largely offset by higher debit card income and auto operating lease income.The provision for credit losses was $9.5&nbsp;billion, compared with $15.9&nbsp;billion in the prior year.The current-year provision reflected an addition to the allowance for loan losses of $3.4&nbsp;billionfor the purchased credit-impaired (&#147;PCI&#148;) portfolio and a reduction in the allowance for loanlosses of $1.8&nbsp;billion, predominantly for the mortgage loan portfolios. In comparison, theprior-year provision reflected an addition to the allowance for loanlosses of $5.8&nbsp;billion, predominantly for the home equity and mortgage portfolios, but which alsoincluded an addition of $1.6&nbsp;billion for the PCI portfolio. While delinquency trends and netcharge-offs improved compared with the prior year, the provision continued to reflect elevatedlosses for the mortgage and home equity portfolios. See page 130 of this Annual Report for the netcharge-off amounts and rates. To date, no charge-offs have been recorded on PCI loans.Noninterest expense was $17.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 7%, from the prior year,reflecting higher default-related expense.2009 compared with 2008The following discussion of RFS's financial results reflects the acquisition of Washington Mutual'sretail bank network and mortgage banking activities as a result of the Washington Mutualtransaction on September&nbsp;25, 2008. See Note 2 on pages 166&#150;170 of this Annual Report for moreinformation concerning this transaction.Net income was $97&nbsp;million, a decrease of $783&nbsp;million from the prior year, as the increase inprovision for credit losses more than offset the positive impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction.Net revenue was $32.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $9.2&nbsp;billion, or 39%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $20.5&nbsp;billion, up by $6.3&nbsp;billion, or 45%, reflecting the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction, and wider loan and deposit spreads. Table of ContentsNoninterest revenue was $12.2billion, up by $2.8&nbsp;billion, or 30%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,wider margins on mortgage originations and higher net mortgage servicing revenue, partially offsetby $1.6&nbsp;billion in estimated losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans.The provision for credit losses was $15.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $6.0&nbsp;billion from the prior year.Weak economic conditions and housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses forthe home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision included an addition of $5.8&nbsp;billion tothe allowance for loan losses, compared with an addition of $5.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6&nbsp;billion increase relatedto estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual PCI portfolio.See page 130 of this AnnualReport for the net charge-off amounts and rates. To date, no charge-offs have been recorded on PCIloans.Noninterest expense was $16.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $4.7&nbsp;billion, or 39%. The increase reflectedthe impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher servicing and default-relatedexpense.Selected metrics Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRetail BankingSelected income statement dataSelected metricsRetail branch business metrics2010 compared with 2009Retail Banking reported net income of $3.6&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $289&nbsp;million, or 7%, comparedwith the prior year. Total net revenue was $17.6&nbsp;billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. Thedecrease was driven by lower deposit-related fees, largely offset by higher debit card income and ashift to wider-spread deposit products. The provision for credit losses was $607&nbsp;million, down $535million compared with the prior year. The current-year provision reflected lower net charge-offsand a reduction of $100&nbsp;million to the allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses,compared with a $300&nbsp;million addition to the allowance for loan losses in the prior year. RetailBanking net charge-offs were $707&nbsp;million, compared with $842&nbsp;million in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $10.7&nbsp;billion, up 3% compared with the prior year, resulting from salesforce increases in Business Banking and bank branches.2009 compared with 2008Retail Banking reported net income of $3.9&nbsp;billion, up by $921&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prioryear. Total net revenue was $18.0&nbsp;billion, up by $5.3&nbsp;billion, or 42%, from the prior year. Theincrease reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider deposit spreads, higheraverage deposit balances and higher debit card income. The provision for credit losses was $1.1billion, compared with $449&nbsp;million inthe prior year, reflecting higher estimated losses in the Business Banking portfolio. Noninterestexpense was $10.4&nbsp;billion, up by $3.1&nbsp;billion, or 43%. The increase reflected the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction, higher FDIC insurance premiums and higher headcount-related expense.Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer LendingSelected income statement data2010 compared with 2009Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending reported net income of $1.4&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $238million, or 14%, from the prior year.Net revenue was $8.6&nbsp;billion, up by $410&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year. Mortgage Banking netrevenue was $5.2&nbsp;billion, flat to the prior year. Other Consumer Lending net revenue, comprisingAuto and Student Lending, was $3.5&nbsp;billion, up by $447&nbsp;million, predominantly as a result of higherauto loan and lease balances.Mortgage Banking net revenue included $904&nbsp;million of net interest income, $3.9&nbsp;billion of mortgagefees and related income, Table of Contentsand $413&nbsp;million of other noninterest revenue. Mortgage fees and relatedrevenue comprised $528&nbsp;million of net production revenue, $2.2&nbsp;billion of servicing operatingrevenue and $1.1&nbsp;billion of MSR risk management revenue. Production revenue, excluding repurchaselosses, was $3.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.3&nbsp;billion, reflecting wider mortgage margins and higherorigination volumes. Total production revenue was reduced by $2.9&nbsp;billion of repurchase losses,compared with $1.6&nbsp;billion in the prior year, and included a $1.6&nbsp;billion increase in therepurchase reserve during the current year, reflecting higher estimated future repurchase demands.Servicing operating revenue was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $528&nbsp;million, reflecting animprovement in other changes in the MSR asset fair value driven by lower runoff of the MSR assetdue to time decay, partially offset by lower loan servicing revenue as a result of lowerthird-party loans serviced. MSR risk management revenue was $1.1&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $492million.The provision for credit losses, predominantly related to the student and auto loan portfolios, was$614&nbsp;million, compared with $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflectedlower net charge-offs and a reduction of $135&nbsp;million to the allowance for loan losses due to lowerestimated losses, compared with a $307&nbsp;million addition to the allowance for loan losses in theprior year. See page 130 of this Annual Report for the net charge-off amounts and rates.Noninterest expense was $5.6&nbsp;billion, up by $1.0&nbsp;billion, or 23%, from the prior year, driven by anincrease in default-related expense for the serviced portfolio, including costs associated withforeclosure affidavit-related suspensions.2009 compared with 2008Mortgage Banking, Auto & Other Consumer Lending reported net income of $1.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $357million, or 28%, from the prior year.Net revenue was $8.2&nbsp;billion, up by $1.3&nbsp;billion, or 18%, from the prior year. Mortgage Banking netrevenue was $5.2&nbsp;billion, up by $701&nbsp;million. Other Consumer Lending net revenue, comprising Autoand Student Lending, was $3.0&nbsp;billion, up by $553&nbsp;million, largely as a result of wider loanspreads.Mortgage Banking net revenue included $973&nbsp;million of net interest income, $3.8&nbsp;billion of mortgagefees and related income, and $442&nbsp;million of other noninterest revenue. Mortgage fees and relatedincome comprised $503&nbsp;million of net production revenue, $1.7&nbsp;billion of servicing operatingrevenue and $1.6&nbsp;billion of MSR risk management revenue. Production revenue, excluding repurchaselosses, was $2.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $965&nbsp;million, reflecting wider margins on neworiginations. Total production revenue was reduced by $1.6&nbsp;billion of repurchase losses, comparedwith repurchase losses of $252&nbsp;million in the prior year. Servicing operating revenue was $1.7billion, an increase of $457&nbsp;million, reflecting growth in average third-party loans serviced as aresult of the Washington Mutual transaction. MSR risk management revenue was $1.6&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $111&nbsp;million, reflecting the positive impact of a decrease in estimated futureprepayments during 2009.The provision for credit losses, predominantly related to the student and auto loan portfolios, was$1.2&nbsp;billion, compared with $895&nbsp;million in the prior year. The current- and prior-year provisionreflected an increase in the allowance for loan losses for studentand auto loans. See page 130 ofthis Annual Report for the net charge-off amounts and rates.Noninterest expense was $4.5&nbsp;billion, up by $588&nbsp;million, or 15%, from the prior year, driven byhigher servicing and default-related expense and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Selected metrics Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSelected metricsMortgage origination channels comprise the following:Retail &#150; Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by theFirm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a bankerin a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.Wholesale &#150; A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers areindependent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.The Firm exited the broker channel during 2008.Correspondent &#150; Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (&#147;CNTs&#148;) &#150; These transactions occur when mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders,banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm, on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchased bulkservicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities inthe servicing portfolio in stable and periods of rising interest rates.Net production revenue &#150; Includes net gains or losses on originations and sales ofprime and subprime mortgage loans, other production-related fees and losses related tothe repurchase of previously-sold loans. Table of ContentsNet mortgage servicing revenue includes the followingcomponents:Real Estate PortfoliosSelected income statement data2010 compared with 2009Real Estate Portfolios reported a net loss of $2.5&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $5.4billion in the prior year. The improvement was driven by a lower provision for credit losses,partially offset by lower net interest income.Net revenue was $5.5&nbsp;billion, down by $973&nbsp;million, or 15%, from the prior year. The decrease wasdriven by a decline in net interest income as a result of lower loan balances, reflecting netportfolio runoff.The provision for credit losses was $8.2&nbsp;billion, compared with $13.6&nbsp;billion in the prior year.The current-year provision reflected a $1.9&nbsp;billion reduction in net charge-offs and a$1.6&nbsp;billion reduction in the allowance for the mortgage loan portfolios. This reduction in theallowance for loan losses included the effect of $632&nbsp;million of charge-offs related to an adjustment of the estimatednet realizable value of the collateral underlying delinquentresidential home loans. For additional information, refer toPortfolio analysis on page 131 of thisAnnual Report. The remaining reduction of the allowance of approximately $950&nbsp;million was a resultof an improvement in delinquencies and lower estimated losses, compared with prior year additionsof $3.6&nbsp;billion for the home equity and mortgage portfolios. Additionally, the current-yearprovision reflected an addition to the allowance for loan losses of $3.4&nbsp;billion for the PCIportfolio,compared with a prior year addition of $1.6&nbsp;billion for this portfolio. (For furtherdetail, see the RFS discussion of the provision for credit losses onpage 72 of this Annual Report.)Noninterest expense was $1.6&nbsp;billion, down by $220&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year, reflectinglower default-related expense.2009 compared with 2008Real Estate Portfolios reported a net loss of $5.4&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $3.4billion in the prior year.Net revenue was $6.5&nbsp;billion, up by $2.6&nbsp;billion, or 65%, from the prior year. The increase wasdriven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and wider loan spreads, partially offsetby lower heritage Chase loan balances.The provision for credit losses was $13.6&nbsp;billion, compared with $8.6&nbsp;billion in the prior year.The provision reflected weakness in the home equity and mortgage portfolios. (For further detail,see the RFS discussion of the provision for credit losses for furtherdetail) on pages 72&#150;73 of thisAnnual Report.Noninterest expense was $1.8&nbsp;billion, compared with $889&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflectinghigher default-related expense.Included within Real Estate Portfolios are PCI loans that the Firm acquired in the WashingtonMutual transaction. For PCI loans, the excess of the undiscounted gross cash flows expected to becollected over the carrying value of the loans (&#147;the accretable yield&#148;) is accreted into interestincome at a level rate of return over the expected life of the loans.The net spread between the PCI loans and the related liabilities are expected to be relatively constant overtime, except for any basis risk or other residual interest rate risk that remains and for certainchanges in the accretable yield percentage (e.g. from extended loan liquidation periods and fromprepayments). As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, the remaining weighted-average life of the PCI loanportfolio is expected to be 7.0&nbsp;years. For further information, see Note 14, PCI loans, on pages233&#150;236 of this Annual Report. The loan balances are expected to decline more rapidly in theearlier years as the most troubled loans are liquidated, and more slowly thereafter as theremaining troubled borrowers have limited refinancing opportunities. Similarly, default andservicing expense are expected to be higher in the earlier years and decline over time asliquidations slow down.To date the impact of the PCI loans on Real Estate Portfolios' net income has been modestlynegative. This is due to the current net spread of the portfolio, the provision for loan lossesrecognized subsequent to its acquisition, and the higher level of default and servicing expenseassociated with the portfolio. Over time, the Firm expects that this portfolio will contributepositively to net income. Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSelected metricsCredit data and quality statistics Table of ContentsCARD SERVICES&nbsp;Card Services is one of the nation's largestcredit card issuers, with over $137&nbsp;billion in loans and over 90&nbsp;million openaccounts. Customers used Chase cards to meet $313&nbsp;billion of their spendingneeds in 2010.Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult business environment,offering products and services such as Blueprint, Chase Freedom, UltimateRewards, Chase Sapphire and Ink from Chase, and earning a market leadershipposition in building loyalty and rewards programs. Through its merchantacquiring business, Chase Paymentech Solutions, CS is a global leader inpayment processing and merchant acquiring.Selected income statement data &#150; managed basis(a)NA: Not applicable2010 compared with 2009Net income was $2.1&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $2.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Theimproved results were driven by a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower netrevenue.End-of-period loans were $137.7&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $25.7&nbsp;billion, or 16%, from the prior year.Average loans were $144.4&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $28.0&nbsp;billion, or 16%, from the prior year. Thedeclines in both end-of-period and average loans were due to a decline in lower-yieldingpromotional balances and the Washington Mutual portfolio runoff.Net revenue was $17.2&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $3.1&nbsp;billion, or 15%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $13.9&nbsp;billion, down by $3.5&nbsp;billion, or 20%. The decrease in net interestincome was driven by lower average loan balances, the impact of legislative changes, and adecreased level of fees. These decreases were offset partially by lower revenue reversalsassociated with lower charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was $3.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $357million, or 12%, driven by the prior-year write-down of securitization interests, offset partially bylower revenue from fee-based products.The provision for credit losses was $8.0&nbsp;billion, compared with $18.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year.The current-year provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a reduction of $6.0&nbsp;billion to theallowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses. The prior-year provision included anaddition of $2.4&nbsp;billion to the allowance for loan losses. Including the Washington Mutualportfolio, the net charge-off rate was 9.72%, including loans held-for-sale, up from 9.33% in theprior year; and the 30-day delinquency rate was 4.07%, down from 6.28% in the prioryear. Excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio, the net charge-off rate was 8.72%, including loansheld-for-sale, up from 8.45% in the prior year; and the 30-day delinquency rate was 3.66%, downfrom 5.52% in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $5.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $416&nbsp;million, or 8%, due to higher marketingexpense.Credit Card LegislationIn May&nbsp;2009, the CARD Act was enacted. Management estimates that the total reduction in net incomeresulting from the CARD Act is approximately $750&nbsp;million annually. The run-rate impact of thisreduction in net income is reflected in results as of the end of the fourth quarter of 2010. Thefull year impact on 2010 net income was approximately $300&nbsp;million.The most significant effects of the CARD Act include: (a)&nbsp;the inability to change the pricing ofexisting balances; (b)&nbsp;the allocation of customer payments above the minimum payment to theexisting balance with the highest annual percentage rate (&#147;APR&#148;); (c)&nbsp;the requirement thatcustomers opt-in in order to receive, for a fee, overlimit protection that permits an authorizedtransaction over their credit limit; (d)&nbsp;the requirement that statements must be mailed ordelivered not later than 21&nbsp;days before the payment due date; (e)&nbsp;the limiting of the amount ofpenalty fees that can be assessed; and (f)&nbsp;the requirement to review customer accounts forpotential interest rate reductions in certain circumstances.As a result of the CARD Act, CS has implemented certain changes to its business practices to manageits inability to price loans to customers at rates that are commensurate with their risk over time.These changes include: (a)&nbsp;selectively increasing pricing; (b)&nbsp;reducing the volume and duration oflow-rate promotional pricing offered to customers; and (c)&nbsp;reducing the amount of credit that isgranted to certain new and existing customers. Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2009 compared with 2008The following discussion of CS's financial results reflects the acquisition of Washington Mutual'scredit cards operations as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction on September&nbsp;25, 2008, andthe dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture on November&nbsp;1, 2008. See Note 2 onpages 166&#150;170 of this Annual Report for more information concerning these transactions.Card Services reported a net loss of $2.2&nbsp;billion, compared with net income of $780&nbsp;million in theprior year. The decrease was driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset byhigher total net revenue.End-of-period managed loans were $163.4&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $26.9&nbsp;billion, or 14%, from theprior year, reflecting lower charge volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Average managed loanswere $172.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $9.5&nbsp;billion, or 6%, from the prior year, primarily due to theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, end-of-period and average managed loans for 2009 were $143.8&nbsp;billion and $148.8billion, respectively.Managed total net revenue was $20.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $3.8&nbsp;billion, or 23%, from the prioryear. Net interest income was $17.4&nbsp;billion, up by $3.6&nbsp;billion, or 26%, from the prior year,driven by wider loan spreads and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. These benefitswere offset partially by higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs, a decreasedlevel of fees, lower average managed loan balances, and the impact of legislative changes.Noninterest revenue was $2.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $201&nbsp;million, or 7%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of the ChasePaymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partiallyoffset by a larger write-down of securitization interests.The managed provision for credit losses was $18.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $8.4&nbsp;billion from theprior year, reflecting a higher level of charge-offs and an addition of $2.4&nbsp;billion to theallowance for loan losses, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. The managed netcharge-off rate was 9.33%, up from 5.01% in the prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was6.28%, up from 4.97% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,the managed net charge-off rate was 8.45%, and the 30-day managed delinquency rate was 5.52%.Noninterest expense was $5.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $241&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, dueto the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction, partially offset by lower marketing expense.Selected metrics Table of ContentsNA: Not applicableReconciliation from reported basis to managed basisThe financial information presented in the following table reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclosethe effect of securitizations reported in 2009 and 2008. Effective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firmadopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. As a result of the consolidation of the credit cardsecuritization trusts, reported and managed basis relating to credit card securitizations areequivalent for periods beginning after January&nbsp;1, 2010. For further details regarding the Firm'sapplication and impact of the guidance, see Note 16 on pages 244&#150;259 of this Annual Report.NA: Not applicableThe following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services. Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCOMMERCIAL BANKING&nbsp;Commercial Banking delivers extensive industry knowledge, localexpertise and dedicated service to nearly 24,000 clients nationally, includingcorporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profitentities with annual revenue generally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion,and nearly 35,000 real estate investors/owners. CB partners with the Firm'sother businesses to provide comprehensive solutions, including lending,treasury services, investment banking and asset management to meet itsclients' domestic and international financial needs.Commercial Banking is divided into four primary client segments: Middle Market Banking, CommercialTerm Lending, Mid-Corporate Banking, and Real Estate Banking. Middle Market Banking coverscorporate, municipal, financial institution and not-for-profit clients, with annual revenuegenerally ranging between $10&nbsp;million and $500&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients withannual revenue generally ranging between $500&nbsp;million and $2&nbsp;billion and focuses on clients thathave broader investment banking needs. Commercial Term Lending primarily provides term financing toreal estate investors/owners for multi-family properties as well as financing office, retail and industrial properties.Real Estate Banking provides full-service banking to investors and developers ofinstitutional-grade real estate properties.Selected income statement dataSelected income statement data2010 compared with 2009Record net income was $2.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $813&nbsp;million, or 64%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by a reduction in the provision for credit losses and higher net revenue.Net revenue was a record $6.0&nbsp;billion, up by $320&nbsp;million, or 6%, compared with the prior year. Netinterest income was $3.8&nbsp;billion, down by $63&nbsp;million, or 2%, driven by spread compression onliability products and lower loan balances, predominantly offset by growth in liability balancesand wider loan spreads. Noninterest revenue was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $383&nbsp;million, or 21%,from the prior year, reflecting higher net gains from asset sales, higher lending-related fees, animprovement in the market conditions impacting the value of investments held at fair value, higherinvestment banking fees and increased community development investment-related revenue.On a client segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking was $3.1&nbsp;billion, flat compared withthe prior year. Revenue from Commercial Term Lending was $1.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $148&nbsp;million,or 17%, and includes the impact of the purchase of a $3.5&nbsp;billion loan portfolio during the thirdquarter of 2010 and higher net gains from asset sales. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $1.2billion, an increase of $52&nbsp;million, or 5%, compared with the prior year due to wider loan spreads,higher lending-related fees and higher investment banking fees offset partially by reduced loanbalances. Real Estate Banking revenue was $460&nbsp;million, flat compared with the prior year. Table of ContentsThe provision for credit losses was $297&nbsp;million, compared with $1.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Thedecline was mainly due to stabilization in the credit quality of the loan portfolio and refinementsto credit loss estimates. Net charge-offs were $909&nbsp;million (0.94% net charge-off rate), comparedwith $1.1&nbsp;billion (1.02% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. The allowance for loan losses toperiod-end loans retained was 2.61%, down from 3.12% in the prior year. Nonaccrual loans were $2.0billion, a decrease of $801&nbsp;million, or 29%, from the prior year.Noninterest expense was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $23&nbsp;million, or 1%, compared with the prioryear reflecting higher headcount-related expense partially offset by lower volume-related expense.2009 compared with 2008The following discussion of CB's results reflects the September&nbsp;25, 2008 acquisition of thecommercial banking operations of Washington Mutual from the FDIC. The Washington Mutual transactionadded approximately $44.5&nbsp;billion in loans to the Commercial Term Lending, Real Estate Banking, andOther client segments in Commercial Banking.Net income was $1.3&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $168&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year, as higherprovision for credit losses and noninterest expense was partially offset by higher net revenue,reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Record net revenue of $5.7&nbsp;billion increased $943&nbsp;million, or 20%, from the prior year. Netinterest income of $3.9&nbsp;billion increased $607&nbsp;million, or 18%, driven by the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction. Noninterest revenue was $1.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $336&nbsp;million,or 23%, from the prior year, reflecting higher lending- and deposit-related fees and higherinvestment banking fees and other income.On a client segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking was $3.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $116million, or 4%, from the prior year due to higher liability balances, a shift to higher-spreadliability products, wider loan spreads, higher lending- and deposit-related fees, and higher otherincome, partially offset by a narrowing of spreads on liability products and reduced loan balances.Revenue from Commercial Term Lending (a new client segment acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction encompassing multi-family and commercial mortgage loans) was $875&nbsp;million, an increaseof $632&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $1.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $181&nbsp;million, or20%, driven by higher investment banking fees, increased loan spreads, and higher lending- anddeposit-related fees. Real Estate Banking revenue was $461&nbsp;million, an increase of $48&nbsp;million, or12%, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.The provision for credit losses was $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with$464&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment,predominantly in real estate-related segments. Net charge-offs were $1.1&nbsp;billion (1.02% netcharge-off rate), compared with $288&nbsp;million (0.35% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Theallowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 3.12%, up from 2.45% in the prioryear. Nonperforming loans were $2.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.8&nbsp;billion from the prior year.Noninterest expense was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $230&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year, dueto the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums.Selected metrics Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisTREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in transaction,investment and information services. TSS is one of the world's largest cashmanagement providers and a leading global custodian. Treasury Servicesprovides cash management, trade, wholesale card and liquidity products andservices to small- and mid-sized companies, multinational corporations,financial institutions and government entities. TS partners with IB, CB, RFSand AM businesses to serve clients firmwide. Certain TS revenue is included inother segments' results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clearsand services securities, cash and alternative investments for investors andbroker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally.Selected income statement data2010 compared with 2009Net income was $1.1&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $147&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year. These resultsreflected higher noninterest expense partially offset by the benefit from the provision for creditlosses and higher net revenue.Net revenue was $7.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $37&nbsp;million, or 1%, from the prior year. TreasuryServices net revenue was $3.7&nbsp;billion, relatively flat compared with the prior year as lowerspreads on liability products were offset by higher trade loan and card product volumes. WorldwideSecurities Services net revenue was $3.7&nbsp;billion, relatively flat compared with the prior year ashigher market levels and net inflows of assets under custody were offset by lower spreads insecurities lending, lower volatility on foreign exchange, and lower balances on liability products.TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.3&nbsp;billion, including $6.6&nbsp;billion by Treasury Services;of that amount, $3.7&nbsp;billion was recorded in Treasury Services, $2.6&nbsp;billion in Commercial Bankingand $247&nbsp;million in other lines of business. The remaining $3.7&nbsp;billion of firmwide net revenue wasrecorded in Worldwide Securities Services.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $47&nbsp;million, compared with an expense of $55million in the prior year. The decrease in the provision expense was primarily due to animprovement in credit quality.Noninterest expense was $5.6&nbsp;billion, up $326&nbsp;million, or 6%, from the prior year. The increase wasdriven by continued investment in new product platforms, primarily related to internationalexpansion and higher performance-based compensation. Table of Contents2009 compared with 2008Net income was $1.2&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $541&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prior year, driven bylower net revenue.Net revenue was $7.3&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $790&nbsp;million, or 10%, from the prior year. WorldwideSecurities Services net revenue was $3.6&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $713&nbsp;million, or 16%. The decreasewas driven by lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of declines in assetvaluations and demand, lower balances and spreads on liability products, and the effect of marketdepreciation on certain custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue was$3.7&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $77&nbsp;million, or 2%, reflecting spread compression on deposit products,offset by higher trade revenue driven by wider spreads and growth across cash management and cardproduct volumes.TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.2&nbsp;billion, including $6.6&nbsp;billion of net revenue inTreasury Services; of that amount, $3.7&nbsp;billion was recorded in the Treasury Services business,$2.6&nbsp;billion was recorded in the Commercial Banking business, and $245&nbsp;million was recorded inother lines of business. The remaining $3.6&nbsp;billion of net revenue was recorded in WorldwideSecurities Services.The provision for credit losses was $55&nbsp;million, a decrease of $27&nbsp;million from the prior year.Noninterest expense was $5.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $55&nbsp;million from the prior year. The increasewas driven by higher FDIC insurance premiums, predominantly offset by lower headcount-relatedexpense.Selected metricsSelected metrics Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisASSET MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Asset Management, with assets under supervision of $1.8 trillion,is a global leader in investment and wealth management. AM clients includeinstitutions, retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in every majormarket throughout the world. AM offers global investment management inequities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity andliquidity, including money market instruments and bank deposits. AM alsoprovides trust and estate, banking and brokerage services to high-net-worthclients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals. Themajority of AM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2010 compared with 2009Net income was $1.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $280&nbsp;million, or 20%, from the prior year, due tohigher net revenue and a lower provision for credit losses, largely offset by higher noninterestexpense.Net revenue was a record $9.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.0&nbsp;billion, or 13%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $7.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 17%, due to the effect ofhighermarket levels, net inflows to products with higher margins, higher loan originations, andhigher performance fees. Net interest income was $1.5&nbsp;billion, down by $94&nbsp;million, or 6%, from theprior year, due to narrower deposit spreads, largely offset by higher deposit and loan balances.Revenue from Private Banking was $4.9&nbsp;billion, up 13% from the prior year due to higher loanoriginations, higher deposit and loan balances, the effect of higher market levels and net inflowsto products with higher margins, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads. Revenue fromInstitutional was $2.2&nbsp;billion, up 6% due to the effect of higher market levels, partially offsetby liquidity outflows. Revenue from Retail was $1.9&nbsp;billion, up 23% due to the effect of highermarket levels and net inflows to products with higher margins, partially offset by lower valuationsof seed capital investments.The provision for credit losses was $86&nbsp;million, compared with $188&nbsp;million in the prior year,reflecting an improving credit environment.Noninterest expense was $6.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $639&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year,resulting from increased headcount and higher performance-based compensation.2009 compared with 2008Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $73&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, due to highertotal net revenue, offset largely by higher noninterest expense and provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $8.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $381&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $6.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $306&nbsp;million, or 5%, due to higher valuationsof seed capital investments and net inflows, offset largely by lower market levels. Net interestincome was $1.6&nbsp;billion, up by $75&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, due to wider loan spreadsand higher deposit balances, offset partially by narrower deposit spreads.Revenue from Private Banking was $4.3&nbsp;billion, up 3% from the prior year due to wider loan spreadsand higher deposit balances, offset largely by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue fromInstitutional was $2.1&nbsp;billion, up 16% due to higher valuations of seed capital investments and netinflows, offset partially by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue from Retail was $1.6billion, down 2% due to the effect of lower market levels, offset largely by higher valuations ofseed capital investments.The provision for credit losses was $188&nbsp;million, an increase of $103&nbsp;million from the prior year,reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment.Noninterest expense was $5.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $175&nbsp;million, or 3%, from the prior year dueto the effect of the Bear Stearns merger, higher performance-based compensation and higher FDICinsurance premiums, offset largely by lower headcount-related expense.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metrics&nbsp;AM's client segments comprise the following:Private Banking offers investment advice and wealth management services to high- andultra-high-net-worth individuals, families, money managers, business owners and small corporationsworldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, tax and estateplanning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.Institutional brings comprehensive global investment services &#150; including asset management,pension analytics, asset-liability management and active risk-budgeting strategies &#150; to corporateand public institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governmentsworldwide.Retail provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning andadministration, through third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investmentvehicles.J.P. Morgan Asset Management has two high-level measures of its overall fund performance.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAssets under supervision2010 compared with 2009Assets under supervision were $1.8 trillion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, an increase of $139&nbsp;billion, or8%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.3 trillion, an increase of $49&nbsp;billion, or4%, due to the effect of higher market levels and net inflows in long-term products, largely offsetby net outflows in liquidity products. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were$542&nbsp;billion, up by $90&nbsp;billion, or 20%, due to custody and brokerage inflows and the effect ofhigher market levels. The Firm also has a 41% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whoseAUM totaled $103&nbsp;billion and $86&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively; these areexcluded from the AUM above.2009 compared with 2008Assets under supervision were $1.7 trillion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, an increase of $205&nbsp;billion, or14%, from the prior year. Assets under management were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $116&nbsp;billion,or 10%, from the prior year. The increases were due to the effect of higher market valuations andinflows in fixed income and equity products offset partially by outflows in cash products. Custody,brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $452&nbsp;billion, up by $89&nbsp;billion, due to theeffect of higher market levels on custody and brokerage balances, and brokerage inflows in PrivateBanking. The Firm also had a 42% interest in American Century Companies, Inc. at December&nbsp;31, 2009,whose AUM totaled $86&nbsp;billion and $70&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively; theseare excluded from the AUM above.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of Contents&nbsp;CORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY&nbsp;The Corporate/Private Equity sectorcomprises Private Equity, Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporatestaff units and expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and the ChiefInvestment Office manage capital, liquidity and structural risks of the Firm.The corporate staff units include Central Technology and Operations, InternalAudit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications,Legal & Compliance, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, RiskManagement, Corporate Responsibility and Strategy & Development. Othercentrally managed expense includes the Firm's occupancy and pension-relatedexpense, net of allocations to the business.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2010 compared with 2009Net income was $1.3&nbsp;billion compared with $3.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The decrease was drivenby higher litigation expense, partially offset by higher net revenue.Net income for Private Equity was $588&nbsp;million, compared with a net loss of $78&nbsp;million in theprior year, reflecting the impact of improved market conditions on certain investments in theportfolio. Net revenue was $1.2&nbsp;billion compared with $18&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflectingprivate equity gains of $1.3&nbsp;billion compared with losses of $54&nbsp;million. Noninterest expense was$323&nbsp;million, an increase of $182&nbsp;million, driven by higher compensation expense.Net income for Corporate was $670&nbsp;million, compared with $3.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Currentyear results reflect after-tax litigation expense of $3.5&nbsp;billion, lower net interest income andtrading gains, partially offset by a higher level of securities gains, primarily driven byrepositioning of the portfolio in response to changes in the interest rate environment and torebalance exposure. The prior year included merger-related net loss of $635&nbsp;million and a $419million FDIC assessment.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2009 compared with 2008Net income was $3.0&nbsp;billion compared with $557&nbsp;million in theprior year. The increase was driven by higher net revenue, partially offset by higher litigationexpense.Net loss for Private Equity was $78&nbsp;million compared with a net loss of $690&nbsp;million in the prioryear. Net revenue was $18&nbsp;million, an increase of $981&nbsp;million, reflecting private equity losses of$54&nbsp;million compared with losses of $894&nbsp;million. Noninterest expense was $141&nbsp;million, an increaseof $21&nbsp;million.Net income for Corporate, including merger-related items, was $3.1&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.2billion in the prior year. Results in 2009 reflected higher levels of trading gains, net interestincome and an after-tax gain of $150&nbsp;million from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially offsetby $635&nbsp;million merger-related losses, a $419&nbsp;million FDIC special assessment, lower securitiesgains and the absence of the $1.9&nbsp;billion extraordinary gain related to the Washington Mutualmerger in 2008. Trading gains and net interest income increased due to the Chief Investment Office's(&#147;CIO&#148;) significant purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies,corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and other asset-backedsecurities. These investments were generally associated with the management of interest rate riskand investment of cash resulting from the excess funding the Firm continued to experience during2009. The increase in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-coupon instruments (partof repositioning the investment portfolio) as well as prepayments and maturities.After-tax results in 2008 included $955&nbsp;million in proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in itsinitial public offering and $627&nbsp;million from the dissolution ofthe Chase Paymentech Solutions jointventure. These items were partially offset by losses of $642&nbsp;million on preferred securities ofFannie Mae and Freddie Mac, a $248&nbsp;million charge related to the offer to repurchase auction-ratesecurities and $211&nbsp;million net merger costs.Treasury and CIOSelected income statement and balance sheet data&nbsp;For further information on the investment securities portfolio, see Note 3 and Note 12 on pages170&#150;187 and 214&#150;218, respectively, of this Annual Report. For further information on CIO VaR andthe Firm's earnings-at-risk, see the Market Risk Managementsection on pages 142&#150;146 of thisAnnual Report.Private Equity PortfolioSelected income statement and balance sheet data&nbsp;2010 compared with 2009The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2010, was $8.7&nbsp;billion, up from$7.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The portfolio increase was primarily due to incrementalfollow-on investments. The portfolio represented 6.9% of the Firm's stockholders' equity lessgoodwill at December&nbsp;31, 2010, up from 6.3% at December&nbsp;31, 2009.2009 compared with 2008The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2009, was $7.3&nbsp;billion, up from$6.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. The portfolio increase was primarily driven by additionalfollow-on investments and net unrealized gains on the existing portfolio, partially offset by salesduring 2009. The portfolio represented 6.3% of the Firm's stockholders' equity less goodwill atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, up from 5.8% at December&nbsp;31, 2008.&nbsp; Table of ContentsINTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS&nbsp;In 2010,the Firm reported approximately $22.2&nbsp;billion of revenue involving clients, customersand counterparties residing outside of the United States. Of thatamount, approximately 64% was derived from Europe/MiddleEast/Africa (&#147;EMEA&#148;), approximately 26% from Asia Pacific,approximately 8% from Latin America/Caribbean, and the balance fromother geographies outside the United States.The Firm is committed to further expanding its wholesalebusinesses (IB, AM and TSS) outside the United States and intends to add additional client-serving bankers, as well as product and sales support personnel, toaddress the needs of the Firm's clients located in these regions.With a comprehensive and coordinated international business strategy and growth plan, effortsand investments for growth will be accelerated and prioritized.Set forthbelow are certain key metrics related to the Firm's wholesaleinternational operations including, for each of EMEA, Latin America/Caribbean and Asia Pacific, the number of countries in each such region in which it operates, front office headcount, number of clients and selected revenueand balance sheet data. For additional information regardinginternational operations, see Note&nbsp;33 on page&nbsp;290 of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp; Thefollowing graphs provide the wholesale international revenue and net income for the periods indicated.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis&nbsp;BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS&nbsp;Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets dataConsolidated Balance Sheets overviewTotal assets were $2.1 trillion, up by $85.6&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2009. The increase wasprimarily a result of higher trading assets &#150; debt and equity instruments, principally due toimproved market activity; higher loans, largely due to the January&nbsp;1, 2010, adoption of accountingguidance related to VIEs; and higher federal funds sold and securities purchased under resaleagreements, predominantly due to higher financing volume in IB. These increases were partiallyoffset by a reduction in deposits with banks, as market stress eased from the end of 2009.Total liabilities were $1.9 trillion, up by $74.9&nbsp;billion. The increase was predominantly a resultof higher beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs, due to the adoption of the accountingguidance related to VIEs.Stockholders' equity was $176.1&nbsp;billion, up by $10.7&nbsp;billion. The increase was driven predominantlyby net income, partially offset by the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles as aresult of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to the consolidation of VIEs.The following is a discussion of the significant changes in the specific line captions of theConsolidated Balance Sheets from December&nbsp;31, 2009.Deposits with banks; federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements; andsecurities borrowedThe Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management activities; to manage its cashpositions and risk-based capital requirements; and to support its trading and risk managementactivities. In particular, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed areused to provide funding or liquidity to clients by purchasing and borrowing their securities forthe short term. The decrease in deposits with banks was largely due to lower deposits with theFederal Reserve Banks and lower interbank lending, as market stress eased from the end of 2009.Securities purchased under resale agreements increased, predominantly due to higher financingvolume in IB. For additional information on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages110&#150;115 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; debt and equity instrumentsDebt and equity trading instruments are used primarily for market-making activity. Theseinstruments consist predominantly of fixed-income securities, including government and corporatedebt; equity securities, including convertible securities; loans, including prime mortgage andother loans warehoused by RFS and IB for sale or securitization purposes and accounted for at fairvalue; and physical commodities inventories carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Tradingassets &#150; debt and equity instruments increased, principally due to improved market activity,primarily in equity securities, foreign debt and physical commodities. Trading liabilities &#150; debtand equity instruments increased, largely due to higher levels of positions to facilitate customertrading. For additional information, refer to Note 3 on pages 170&#150;187 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivative receivables and payablesThe Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-making activity. Derivatives enablecustomers and the Firm to manage their exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies andother markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its credit exposure. Derivativereceivables were flat compared with the prior year. Derivative payables increased, reflectingtighter credit spreads, appreciation of the U.S. dollar and higher commodity derivatives balances(driven by increasing commodity prices and the RBS Sempraacquisition). For additional information, refer to Derivativecontracts on pages 125&#150;128, and&nbsp; Table of ContentsNote 3 and Note 6 on pages170&#150;187 and 191&#150;199, respectively, of this Annual Report.SecuritiesSubstantially all of the securities portfolio is classified as available-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) and usedprimarily to manage the Firm's exposure to interest rate movements and to invest cash resultingfrom excess funding positions. Securities decreased, largely due to repositioning of the portfolioin Corporate, in response to changes in the interest rate environment and to rebalance exposures.The repositioning reduced U.S. government agency securities and increased non-U.S. mortgage-backedsecurities. The adoption of the new accounting guidance related to VIEs, which resulted in theelimination of retained AFS securities issued by Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts,also contributed to the decrease. For information related to securities, refer to theCorporate/Private Equity segment on pages 89&#150;90, and Note 3 and Note 12 on pages 170&#150;187 and214&#150;218, respectively, of this Annual Report.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clientsto individual consumers. Loans and the allowance for loan losses increased as a result of theFirm's adoption of accounting guidance related to VIEs at January&nbsp;1, 2010. Excluding the impact ofthe adoption of the new accounting guidance, loans decreased due to the continued runoff of theresidential real estate loans and credit card balances. The decrease was partially offset by anincrease in wholesale loans, mainly in TSS and AM.The allowance for loan losses, excluding the impact of this adoption, decreased primarily due to adecline in the credit card and wholesale allowance. The decrease was offset partially by anincrease in the consumer (excluding credit card) allowance.For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for loan losses, refer toCredit Risk Management on pages 116&#150;141, and Notes 3, 4, 14 and 15 on pages 170&#150;187, 187&#150;189,220&#150;238 and 239&#150;243, respectively, of this Annual Report.Accrued interest and accounts receivableThis line caption consists of accrued interest receivables from interest-earning assets;receivables from customers (primarily from activities related to IB's Prime Services business);receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; and receivables from failedsecurities sales. Accrued interest and accounts receivable increased, reflecting higher customerreceivables in IB's Prime Services business due to increased client activity. The increase wasoffset partially by the elimination of retained securitization interests upon the adoption of thenew accounting guidance that resulted in the consolidation of Firm-sponsored credit cardsecuritization trusts. For a more detailed discussion of the adoption, see Note 1 and Note 16 onpages 164&#150;165 and 244&#150;259, respectively, of this Annual Report.Premises and equipmentThe Firm's premises and equipment consist of land, buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture andfixtures, hardware and software, and other equipment. The increase in premises and equipment wasprimarily due to the purchase of two buildings, one in New York and one in London; investments inhardware, software and other equipment also contributed to the increase. The increase was partiallyoffset by the related depreciation and amortization of these assets.GoodwillGoodwill arises from business combinations and represents the excess of the purchase price of anacquired entity or business over the fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilitiesassumed. The increase in goodwill was largely due to the acquisition of RBS Sempra Commodities'global oil, global metal, and European power and gas businesses by IB; and the purchase of amajority interest in G&#225;vea Investimentos, a leading alternative asset management company in Brazil,by AM. For additional information on goodwill, see Note 17 on pages 260&#150;263 of this Annual Report.Mortgage servicing rightsMSRs represent the fair value of future cash flows for performing specified mortgage-servicingactivities (predominantly related to residential mortgages) for others. MSRs are either purchasedfrom third parties or retained upon the sale or securitization of mortgage loans. Servicingactivities include collecting principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers; making taxand insurance payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and executing foreclosureproceedings; and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to the relatedinvestors of the mortgage-backed securities. MSRs decreased, predominantly due to a significantdecline in market interest rates during 2010, as well as from servicing portfolio runoff anddispositions of MSRs. These decreases were partially offset by increases related to sales in RFS oforiginated loans for which servicing rights were retained. For additional information on MSRs, seeNote 3 and Note 17 on pages 170&#150;187 and 260&#150;263, respectively, of this Annual ReportOther intangible assetsOther intangible assets consist of purchased credit card relationships, other credit card&#150;relatedintangibles, core deposit intangibles and other intangibles. The decrease in other intangibleassets was predominately due to amortization, partially offset by an increase resulting from theaforementioned G&#225;vea Investimentos transaction. For additional information on other intangibleassets, see Note 17 on pages 260&#150;263 of this Annual Report.Other assetsOther assets consist of private equity and other investments, cash collateral pledged, corporateand bank-owned life insurance policies, assets acquired in loan satisfactions (including realestate owned) and all other assets. At December&nbsp;31, 2010, other assets were relatively flatcompared with December&nbsp;31, 2009.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisDepositsDeposits represent a liability to customers, both retail and wholesale, related to non-brokeragefunds held on their behalf. Deposits are classified by location (U.S. and non-U.S.), whether theyare interest- or noninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand, money-market, savings, time ornegotiable order of withdrawal accounts). Deposits provide a stable and consistent source offunding for the Firm. Deposits decreased, reflecting a decline in wholesale funding due to theFirm's lower funding needs, and lower deposit levels in TSS. These factors were offset partially bynet inflows from existing customers and new business in CB, RFS and AM. For more information ondeposits, refer to the RFS and AM segment discussions on pages72&#150;78 and 86&#150;88, respectively; theLiquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 110&#150;115; and Note 3 and Note 19 on pages 170&#150;187and 263&#150;264, respectively, of this Annual Report. For more information on wholesale liabilitybalances, which includes deposits, refer to the CB and TSS segmentdiscussions on pages 82&#150;83 and84&#150;85, respectively, of this Annual Report.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management activities and to support itstrading and risk management activities. In particular, federal funds purchased and securitiesloaned or sold under repurchase agreements are used as short-term funding sources and to makesecurities available to clients for their short-term liquidity purposes. Securities sold underrepurchase agreements increased, largely due to increased levels of activity in IB, partiallyoffset by a decrease in CIO repositioning activities. For additional information on the Firm'sLiquidity Risk Management, see pages 110&#150;115 of this Annual Report.Commercial paper and other borrowed fundsThe Firm uses commercial paper and other borrowed funds in its liquidity management activities tomeet short-term funding needs, and in connection with a TSS liquidity management product, wherebyexcess client funds are transferred into commercial paper overnight sweep accounts. Commercialpaper and other borrowed funds, which includes advances from Federal Home Loan Banks (&#147;FHLBs&#148;),decreased due to lower funding requirements. For additional information on the Firm's LiquidityRisk Management and other borrowed funds, see pages 110&#150;115, and Note 20 on page 264 of thisAnnual Report.Accounts payable and other liabilitiesAccounts payable and other liabilities consist of payables to customers (primarily from activitiesrelated to IB's Prime Services business); payables to brokers, dealers and clearing organizations;payables from failed securities purchases; accrued expense, including interest-bearing liabilities;and all other liabilities, including litigation reserves and obligations to return securitiesreceived as collateral. Accounts payable and other liabilities increased due to additionallitigation reserves, largely for mortgage-related matters.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsBeneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs represent interest-bearing beneficial-interestliabilities, which increased, predominantly due to the Firm's adoption of accounting guidancerelated to VIEs, partially offset by maturities of $24.9&nbsp;billion related to Firm-sponsored creditcard securitization trusts. For additional information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loansecuritization trusts, see Off&#150;Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash Obligations below,and Note 16 and Note 22 on pages 244&#150;259 and 265&#150;266, respectively, of this Annual Report.Long-term debtThe Firm uses long-term debt (including trust-preferred capital debt securities) to providecost-effective and diversified sources of funds and as critical components of the Firm's liquidityand capital management activities. Long-term debt decreased, due to lower funding requirements.Maturities and redemptions totaled $53.4&nbsp;billion during 2010 and were partially offset by newissuances of $36.0&nbsp;billion. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activities, seethe Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 110&#150;115, and Note 22 on pages 265&#150;266 of thisAnnual Report.Stockholders' equityTotal stockholders' equity increased, predominantly due to net income, and net issuances andcommitments to issue under the Firm's employee stock-based compensation plans. The increase waspartially offset by the impact of the adoption of the new accounting guidance related to VIEs,which resulted in a reduction of $4.5&nbsp;billion, driven by the establishment of an allowance for loanlosses of $7.5&nbsp;billion (pretax)&nbsp;related to receivables predominantly held in credit cardsecuritization trusts that were consolidated at the adoption date. Also partially offsetting theincrease were stock repurchases; the purchase of the remaining interest in a consolidatedsubsidiary from noncontrolling shareholders; and the declaration of cash dividends on common andpreferred stock. For a more detailed discussion of the adoption of new consolidated guidancerelated to VIEs, see Notes 1 and 16 on pages 164&#150;165 and 244&#150;259, respectively, of this AnnualReport.&nbsp; Table of ContentsOFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase isinvolved with several types of off&#150;balance sheet arrangements, including through unconsolidatedspecial-purpose entities (&#147;SPEs&#148;), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related financialinstruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesSPEs are the most common type of VIE, used in securitization transactions to isolatecertain assets and distribute related cash flows to investors. The basic SPE structure involves a companyselling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities toinvestors in the form of commercial paper, short-term asset-backed notes, medium-term notes andother forms of interest. SPEs are generally structured to insulate investors from claims on theSPE's assets by creditors of other entities, including the creditors of the seller of the assets.As a result of new accounting guidance, certain VIEs were consolidated on the Firm's ConsolidatedBalance Sheets effective January&nbsp;1, 2010. Nevertheless, SPEs continue to be an important part ofthe financial markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors' access tospecific portfolios of assets and risks. These arrangements are integral to the markets formortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and other asset-backed securities.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its clients by securitizingfinancial assets, and by creating investment products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEsthrough multi-seller conduits, investor intermediation activities, and loan securitizations. SeeNote 16 on pages 244&#150;259 for further information on these types of SPEs.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and relatedexposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with whichthe Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rulesprohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with whichthey or their family have any significant financial interest.Implications of a credit rating downgrade toJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if theshort-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were downgraded below specific levels,primarily &#147;P-1&#148;, &#147;A-1&#148; and &#147;F1&#148; for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. Theaggregate amount of these liquidity commitments, to both consolidated and nonconsolidated SPEs,were $34.2&nbsp;billion at both December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,were downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu ofprovidingfunding under the liquidity commitment or, in certain circumstances, the Firm could facilitate thesale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.Special-purpose entities revenueThe following table summarizes certain revenue information related to consolidated andnonconsolidated VIEs with which the Firm has significant involvement. The revenue reported in thetable below primarily represents contractual servicing and credit fee income (i.e., fee income fromacting as administrator, structurer or liquidity provider). It does not include gains and lossesfrom changes in the fair value of trading positions (such as derivative transactions) entered intowith VIEs. Those gains and losses are recorded in principal transactions revenue.Revenuefrom VIEs and SecuritizationEntities(a)Loan modificationsThe Firm modifies certain loans that it services, and that were sold to off-balance sheet SPEs, pursuant tothe U.S. Treasury's Making Home Affordable (&#147;MHA&#148;) programs and the Firm's other loss mitigationprograms. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 129&#150;138 of this Annual Report for more details onthese loan modifications.Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and other guaranteesJPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) tomeet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instrumentsrepresents the Firm's maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw upon the commitmentor the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under theguarantee, and should the counterpartysubsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments andguarantees expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractualamount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future creditexposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related commitments andguarantees and the Firm's accounting for them, seeLending-related commitments on page 128 and Note30 on pages 275&#150;280 of this Annual Report.The accompanying table presents, as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, the amounts by contractual maturity ofoff&#150;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and other guarantees. The amounts in thetable for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total availablecredit for these products.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that allavailable lines of credit for these products would be utilized at the same time. The Firm canreduce or cancel credit card lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in somecases, without notice as permitted by law. The Firm may reduce or close home equity lines of creditwhen there are significant decreases in the value of the underlying property or when there has beenademonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower. The accompanying table excludescertain guarantees that do not have a contractual maturity date (e.g., loan sale andsecuritization-related indemnification obligations). For further discussion, see discussion of Loan sale andsecuritization-related indemnification obligations in Note 30 on pages 275&#150;280 of this AnnualReport.Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and other guarantees&nbsp; Table of ContentsContractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that mayrequire future cash payments. On-balance sheet obligations include deposits; secured and unsecuredborrowings (both short- and long-term); beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs; currentincome taxes payable; accrued interest payments and certain employee benefit-related obligations.In addition, JPMorgan Chase has certain off-balance-sheet contractual obligations that may requirefuture cash payments; these include unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowingagreements, future interest payments, noncancelable operating leases, capital expenditures relatedto real estate (including building purchase commitments) and equipment; equity investmentcommitments; and contracts to purchase future services.The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's significant contractualcash obligations at December&nbsp;31, 2010. The contractual cash obligations included in the table belowreflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with terms that areboth fixed and determinable. The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on theConsolidated Balance Sheets may differ from the amounts of the obligations reported below. Excludedare contingent payments associated with certain acquisitions, and loan repurchase liabilities. Fora discussion of loan repurchase liabilities, see Repurchase liabilityon pages 98&#150;101 of thisAnnual Report. For further discussion of other obligations, see the Notes toConsolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.Contractual cash obligations&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRepurchase liabilityIn connection with the Firm's loan sale and securitization activities with Fannie Mae andFreddie Mac (the &#147;GSEs&#148;) and other loan sale and private-label securitization transactions, theFirm has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements. Fortransactions with the GSEs, these representations relate to type of collateral, underwritingstandards, validity of certain borrower representations in connection with the loan, primarymortgage insurance being inforce for any mortgage loan with a loan-to-value ratio (&#147;LTV&#148;) greater than 80%, and the use of theGSEs' standard legal documentation. The Firm may be, and has been, required to repurchase loansand/or indemnify the GSEs and other investors for losses due to material breaches of theserepresentations and warranties; however, predominantly all of the repurchase demands received bythe Firm and the Firm's losses realized to date are related to loans sold to the GSEs.To date, the repurchase demands the Firm has received from the GSEs primarily relate to loansoriginated from 2005 to 2008. Demands against the pre-2005 and post-2008 vintages have not beensignificant; the Firm attributes this to the comparatively favorable credit performance of thesevintages and to the enhanced underwriting and loan qualification standards implementedprogressively during 2007 and 2008. From 2005 to 2008, excluding Washington Mutual, loans sold tothe GSEs subject to representations and warranties for which the Firm may be liable wereapproximately $380&nbsp;billion; this amount represents the principal amount of loans sold throughout2005 to 2008 and has not been adjusted for subsequent activity, such as borrower repayments ofprincipal or repurchases completed to date. See the discussion below for information concerning theprocess the Firm uses to evaluate repurchase demands for breaches of representations andwarranties, and the Firm's estimate of probable losses related to such exposure.From 2005 to 2008, Washington Mutual sold approximately $150&nbsp;billion of loans to the GSEs subjectto certain representations and warranties. Subsequent to the Firm's acquisition of certain assetsand liabilities of Washington Mutual from the FDIC in September&nbsp;2008, the Firm resolved and/orlimited certain current and future repurchase demands for loans sold to the GSEs by WashingtonMutual, although it remains the Firm's position that such obligations remain with the FDICreceivership. Nevertheless, certain payments have been made with respect to certain of the thencurrent and future repurchase demands, and the Firm will continue to evaluate and may pay certainfuture repurchase demands related to individual loans. In addition to the payments already made,the Firm estimates it has a remaining repurchase liability of approximately $190&nbsp;million as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, relating to unresolved and future demands on loans sold to the GSEs byWashington Mutual. After consideration of this repurchase liability, the Firm believes that theremaining GSE repurchase exposure related to Washington Mutual presents minimal future risk to theFirm's financial results.The Firm also sells loans in securitization transactions with Ginnie Mae; these loans are typicallyinsured by the Federal Housing Administration (&#147;FHA&#148;) or the Rural Housing Administration (&#147;RHA&#148;)and/or guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (&#147;VA&#148;). The Firm, in its role asservicer, may elect to repurchase delinquent loans securitized by Ginnie Mae in accordance withguidelines prescribed by Ginnie Mae, FHA, RHA and VA. Amounts due under the terms of these loanscontinue to be insured and the reimbursement of insured amounts is proceeding normally.Accordingly, the Firm has not recorded any repurchase liability related to these loans.From 2005 to 2008, the Firm and certain acquired entities sold or deposited approximately $450billion of residential mortgage loans to securitization trusts in private-label securitizations they sponsored. In connection therewith certain representations and warranties were made related to these loans. With respect to the $165&nbsp;billion of private-labelsecuritizations originated by Washington Mutual, it is the Firm's position that repurchase obligations remain withthe FDIC receivership.While theterms of the securitization transactions vary, they generally differ from loan sales toGSEs in that, among other things: (i)&nbsp;in order to direct the trustee to investigate loan files, thesecurity holders must make a formal request for the trustee to do so, and typically, this requiresagreement of the holders of a specified percentage of the outstanding securities; (ii)&nbsp;generally,the mortgage loans are not required to meet all GSE eligibility criteria; and (iii)&nbsp;in many cases,the party demanding repurchase is required to demonstrate that a loan-level breach of arepresentation or warranty has materially and adversely affected the value of the loan. Of the $450billion originally sold or deposited (including $165&nbsp;billion by Washington Mutual, as to which the Firm maintains the repurchaseobligations remain with the FDIC receivership), approximately $180&nbsp;billion of principal has been repaid.Approximately $80&nbsp;billion of loans have been liquidated, with an average loss severity of 57%. Theremaining outstanding principal balance of these loans as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, was approximately$190&nbsp;billion.To date, loan-level repurchase demands in private-label securitizations have beenlimited. As a result, the Firm's repurchase reserve primarily relates to loan sales to the GSEs andis predominantly derived from repurchase activity with the GSEs. While it is possible that thevolume of repurchase demands in private-label securitizations will increase in the future, the Firmcannot offer a reasonable estimate of those future demands based on historical experience to date.Thus far, claims related to private-label securitizations (including from insurers that have guaranteedcertain obligations of the securitization trusts) have generally manifested themselves throughsecurities-related litigation. The Firm separately evaluates its exposure to such litigation inestablishing its litigation reserves. For additional information regarding litigation, see Note 32on pages 282&#150;289 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRepurchaseDemand ProcessThe Firm first becomes aware that a GSE is evaluating a particular loan for repurchase when theFirm receives a request from the GSE to review the underlying loan file (&#147;file request&#148;). Uponcompleting its review, the GSE may submit a repurchase demand to the Firm; historically, most filerequests have not resulted in repurchase demands.The primary reasons for repurchase demands from the GSEs relate to alleged misrepresentationsprimarily arising from: (i)&nbsp;credit quality and/or undisclosed debt of the borrower; (ii)&nbsp;incomelevel and/or employment status of the borrower; and (iii)&nbsp;appraised value of collateral.Ineligibility of the borrower for the particular product, mortgage insurance rescissions andmissing documentation are other reasons for repurchase demands. Beginning in 2009, mortgageinsurers more frequently rescinded mortgage insurance coverage. The successful rescission ofmortgage insurance typically results in a violation of representations and warranties made to theGSEs and, therefore, has been a significant cause of repurchase demands from the GSEs. The Firmactively reviews all rescission notices from mortgage insurers andcontests them when appropriate.As soon as practicable after receiving a repurchase demand from a GSE, the Firm evaluates therequest and takes appropriate actions based on the nature of the repurchase demand. Loan-levelappeals with the GSEs are typical and the Firm seeks to provide a final response to a repurchasedemand within three to four months of the date of receipt. In many cases, the Firm ultimately isnot required to repurchase a loan because it is able to resolve the purported defect. Althoughrepurchase demands may be made foras long as the loan is outstanding, most repurchase demands fromthe GSEs historically have related to loans that became delinquent in the first 24&nbsp;months followingorigination.When the Firm accepts a repurchase demand from one of the GSEs, the Firm may either a) repurchasethe loan or the underlying collateral from the GSE at the unpaid principal balance of the loan plusaccrued interest, or b) reimburse the GSE for its realized loss on a liquidated property (a&#147;make-whole&#148; payment).EstimatedRepurchase LiabilityTo estimate the Firm's repurchase liability arising from breaches of representations andwarranties, the Firm considers:Based on these factors, the Firm has recognized a repurchase liability of $3.3&nbsp;billion and $1.7billion, including the Washington Mutual liability described above, as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, and2009, respectively.The following table provides information about outstanding repurchase demands and mortgageinsurance rescission notices, excluding those related to Washington Mutual, at each of the fivemost recent quarter-end dates. Due to the rate at which developments have occurred in this area,management does not believe that it would be useful or meaningful to report quarterly informationfor periods prior to the quarter ended December&nbsp;31, 2009; the most meaningful trends are thosewhich are more recent.Outstanding repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescission notices by counterparty typeProbable future repurchase demands are generally estimated based on loans that are orever have been 90&nbsp;days past due. The Firm estimates probable future repurchase demands byconsidering the unpaid principal balance of these delinquent loans and expected repurchase demandrates based on historical experience and data, including the age of the loan when it first becamedelinquent. Through the first three quarters of 2010, the Firm experienced a sustained trend ofincreased file requests and repurchase demands from the GSEs across most vintages, including the2005-2008 vintages, in spite of improved delinquency statistics and the aging of the 2005-2008vintages. File requests from the GSEs, excluding thoserelated to Washington Mutual, and private investors decreased by 29% between the second and third quarters of 2009 and remained relativelystable through the fourth quarter of 2009. After this period of decline and relative stability,file requests from the GSEs and private investors then experienced quarter over quarter increasesof 5%, 18% and 15% in the first, second and third quarters of 2010, respectively. The number offile requests received from the GSEs and private investors decreased in the fourth quarter of 2010,but the level of file requests continues to be elevated and volatile.The Firm expects that the change in GSE behavior that it began to observe earlier in 2010 willalter the historical relationship between&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisdelinquencies and repurchase demands. In response tothese changing trends, in the third quarter of 2010, the Firm refined its estimate of probablefuture repurchase demands by separately forecasting near-term repurchase demands (using outstandingfile requests) and longer-term repurchase demands (considering delinquent loans for which no filerequest has been received).The Firm believes that this refined estimation process produces a better estimate of probablefuture repurchase demands since it directly incorporates the Firm's recent file request experience.The Firm also believes that the refined estimation process will betterreflect emerging trends infile requests as well as the relationship between file requests and ultimate repurchase demands.This refinement in the Firm's estimation process resulted in a higher estimated amount of probablefuture demands from the GSEs, and this revised future repurchase demand assumption, along with anoverall increase in repurchase demands from the GSEs during 2010, were the primary drivers of the$1.6&nbsp;billion increase in the Firm's repurchase liability during 2010.The following tables show the trend in repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissionnotices received by loan origination vintage, excluding those related to Washington Mutual, for thefive most recent quarters. Due to the rate at which developments have occurred in this area,management does not believe that it would be useful or meaningful to report quarterly informationfor periods prior to the quarter ended December&nbsp;31, 2009; the most meaningful trends are thosewhich are more recent.Quarterly repurchase demands received by loan origination vintageBecause the Firm has demonstrated an ability to cure certain types of defects morefrequently than others (e.g., missing documents), trends in the types of defects identified as wellas the Firm's historical data are considered in estimating the future cure rate. During 2010, theFirm's overall cure rate, excluding Washington Mutual loans, has been approximately 50%. While theactual cure rate may vary from quarter to quarter, the Firm expects that the overall cure rate willremain in the 40&#150;50% range for the foreseeable future.The Firm has not observed a direct relationship between the type of defect that causes the breachof representations and warranties and the severity of the realized loss. Therefore, the lossseverity assumption is estimated using the Firm's historical experience and projections regardinghome price appreciation. Actual loss severities on finalized repurchases and &#147;make-whole&#148;settlements, excluding any related to Washington Mutual loans, currently average approximately 50%,but may vary from quarter to quarter based on the characteristics of the underlying loans andchanges in home prices.&nbsp; Table of ContentsWhen a loan was originated by a third-party correspondent, the Firm typically has the right to seeka recovery of related repurchase losses from the correspondent originator. Correspondent-originatedloans comprise approximately 40&nbsp;percent of loans underlying outstanding repurchase demands,excluding those related to Washington Mutual. The Firm experienced a decrease in third-partyrecoveries from late 2009 into 2010. However, the actual third-party recovery rate may vary fromquarter to quarter based upon the underlying mix of correspondents (e.g., active, inactive,out-of-business) from which recoveries are being sought.The Firm is engaged in discussions with various mortgage insurers on their rights and practices ofrescinding mortgage insurance coverage. The Firm has entered into agreements with two mortgageinsurers to resolve their claims on certain portfolios for which the Firm is a servicer. The impactof these agreements is reflected in the repurchase liability and the disclosed outstanding mortgageinsurance rescission notices as of December&nbsp;31, 2010.Substantially all of the estimates and assumptions underlying the Firm's methodologyfor computing its recorded repurchase liability&#150;including factors such as the amount of probablefuture demands from purchasers (which is in part based on historical experience), the ability ofthe Firm to cure identified defects, the severity of loss upon repurchase or foreclosure andrecoveries from third parties&#150;require application of a significant level of management judgment.Estimating the repurchase liability is further complicated by limited and rapidlychanging historical data and uncertainty surrounding numerous external factors, including: (i)economic factors (e.g., further declines in home prices and changes in borrower behavior may leadto increases in the number of defaults, the severity of losses, or both), and (ii)&nbsp;the level offuture demands, which is dependent, in part, on actions taken by third parties, such as the GSEsand mortgage insurers. While the Firm uses the best information available to it in estimating itsrepurchase liability, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, imprecise and potentiallyvolatile as additional information is obtained and external factors continue to evolve.The following table summarizes the change in the repurchase liability for each of the periodspresented.Summary of changes in repurchase liabilityThe following table summarizes the total unpaid principal balance of repurchases during theperiods indicated.Unpaid principal balance of loan repurchases(a)&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCAPITAL MANAGEMENT&nbsp;A strong capital position is essential to the Firm's business strategy and competitiveposition. The Firm's capital strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables it to build andinvest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Senior managementconsiders the implications on the Firm's capital strength prior to making any decision on futurebusiness activities. Capital and earnings are inextricably linked, as earnings directly affectcapital generation for the Firm. In addition to considering the Firm's earnings outlook, seniormanagement evaluates all sources and uses of capital and makes decisions to vary sources or uses topreserve the Firm's capital strength.The Firm's capital management objectives are to hold capital sufficient to:To meetthese objectives, the Firm maintains a robust and disciplined capital adequacy assessmentprocess, which is performed quarterly, and which is intended to enable the Firm to remain well-capitalized and fund ongoingoperations under adverse conditions. The process assesses the potential impact of alternativeeconomic and business scenarios on earnings and capital for the Firm's businesses individually andin the aggregate over a rolling three-year period. Economic scenarios, and the parametersunderlying those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly across the businesses.These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, which are key drivers ofbusiness results; global market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading losses; andoperational risk events, which generate significant one-time losses. However, even when defining abroad range of scenarios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, management considersadditional stresses outside these scenarios as necessary. The Firm utilized this capital adequacyprocess in completing the Federal Reserve Comprehensive Capital Plan. The assessment of capitaladequacy is also evaluated together with the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management processes. Forfurther information on the Firm's liquidity risk management, seepages 110&#150;115 of this AnnualReport.The quality and composition of capital are key factors in senior management's evaluation of theFirm's capital adequacy. Accordingly, the Firm holds a significant amount of its capital in the form ofcommon equity. The Firm uses three capital disciplines:Regulatory capitalThe Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, forthe consolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;)establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks,including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.In connection with the U.S. Government's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program in 2009, U.S.banking regulators developed a new measure of capital, Tier 1 common, which is defined as Tier 1capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common equity &#150; such as perpetualpreferred stock, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and trust preferred capital debtsecurities. Tier 1 common, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regulators, investorsand analysts to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm's capital with thecapital of other financial services companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 common along with the othercapital measures to assess and monitor its capital position.At December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, JPMorgan Chase maintained Tier 1 and Total capital ratios in excessof the well-capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve, as indicated in the tablesbelow. In addition, the Firm's Tier 1 common ratio was significantly above the 4% well-capitalizedstandard established at the time of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. For moreinformation, see Note 29 on pages 273&#150;274 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRisk-based capital ratiosA reconciliation of Total stockholders' equity to Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital andTotal qualifying capital is presented in the table below.Risk-based capital components and assetsThe Firm's Tier 1 common capital was $114.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with $105.3billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, an increase of $9.5&nbsp;billion. The increase was predominantly due tonet income (adjusted for DVA) of $17.0&nbsp;billion and net issuances and commitments to issue commonstock under the Firm's employee stock-based compensation plans of $2.8&nbsp;billion. The increase waspartially offset by $4.4&nbsp;billion of cumulative effect adjustments to retained earnings thatpredominantly resulted from the adoption of new accounting guidance related to VIEs; $3.0&nbsp;billionof common stock repurchases; $1.5&nbsp;billion of dividends on common and preferred stock; and a $1.3billion reduction related to the purchase of the remaining interest in a consolidated subsidiaryfrom noncontrolling shareholders. The Firm's Tier 1 capital was $142.5&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31,2010, compared with $133.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, an increase of $9.5&nbsp;billion. The increasein Tier 1 capital reflected the increase in Tier 1 common and a net issuance of trust preferredcapital debt securities, offset by the redemption of preferred stock.For additional information regarding federal regulatory capital requirements and capital ratios ofthe Firm and the Firm's significant banking subsidiaries at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, see Note 29on pages 273&#150;274 of this Annual Report.Basel IIThe minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies follow theCapital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (&#147;Basel I&#148;). In 2004, the BaselCommittee published a revision to the Accord (&#147;Basel II&#148;). The goal of the Basel II Framework is toprovide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk managementpractices among large, internationally active banking organizations. U.S. banking regulatorspublished a final Basel II rule in December&nbsp;2007, which requires JPMorgan Chase to implement BaselII at the holding company level, as well as at certain of its key U.S. bank subsidiaries.Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chase is required to completea qualification period of four consecutive quarters during which it needs to demonstrate that itmeets the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of its primary U.S. banking regulators. TheU.S. implementation timetable consists of the qualification period, starting no later than April&nbsp;1,2010, followed by a minimum transition period of three years. During the transition period, BaselII risk-based capital requirements cannot fall below certain floorsbased on current Basel&nbsp;I regulations. JPMorgan Chase is currently in the qualification period and expects to be incompliance with all relevant Basel II rules within the established timelines. In addition, the Firmhas adopted, and will con-&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysistinue to adopt, based on various established timelines, Basel II rules incertain non-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.Basel IIIIn addition to the Basel II Framework, on December&nbsp;16, 2010, the Basel Committee issued the finalversion of the Capital Accord, called &#147;Basel III&#148;, which included narrowing the definition ofcapital, increasing capital requirements for specific exposures, introducing short-term liquiditycoverage and term funding standards, and establishing an international leverage ratio. The BaselCommittee also announced higher capital ratio requirements under Basel III which provide that thecommon equity requirement will be increased to 7%, comprised of a minimum of 4.5% plus a 2.5%capital conservation buffer.In addition, the U.S. federal banking agencies have published for public comment proposedrisk-based capital floors pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act to establish apermanent Basel I floor under Basel II / Basel III capital calculations.The Firm fully expects tobe in compliance with the higher Basel III capital standards when they become effective on January1, 2019, as well as additional Dodd-Frank Act capital requirements when they are implemented. TheFirm estimates that its Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III rules (including the changes forcalculating capital on trading assets and securitizations) would be 7% as of December&nbsp;31, 2010.This estimate reflects the Firm's current understanding of the Basel III rules and theirapplication to its businesses as currently conducted; accordingly, this estimate will evolve overtime as the Firm's businesses change and as a result of further rule-making on Basel IIIimplementation from U.S. federal banking agencies. The Firm also believes it may need to modify thecurrent liquidity profile of its assets and liabilities in response to the short-term liquiditycoverage and term funding standards contained in Basel III. The Basel III revisionsgoverning liquidity and capital requirements are subject to prolonged observation and transitionperiods. The observation period for the liquidity coverage ratio andterm funding standards begins in 2011, withimplementation in 2015 and 2018, respectively. The transition period for banks to meet the revised common equityrequirement will begin in 2013, with implementation on January&nbsp;1, 2019. The Firm will continue tomonitor the ongoing rule-making process to assess both the timing and the impact of Basel III onits businesses and financial condition.Broker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiariesare J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (&#147;JPMorgan Securities&#148;; formerly J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.), andJ.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. (&#147;JPMorgan Clearing&#148;). JPMorgan Securities became a limited liabilitycompany on September&nbsp;1, 2010. JPMorgan Clearing is a subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities and providesclearing and settlement services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are each subject toRule&nbsp;15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#147;Net Capital Rule&#148;). JPMorgan Securitiesand JPMorgan Clearing are also registered as futures commissionmerchants and subject to Rule&nbsp;1.17of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#147;CFTC&#148;).JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to compute their minimum net capitalrequirements in accordance with the &#147;Alternative Net Capital Requirements&#148; of the Net Capital Rule.At December&nbsp;31, 2010, JPMorgan Securities' net capital, as defined by the Net Capital Rule, was$6.9&nbsp;billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $6.3&nbsp;billion, and JPMorgan Clearing's netcapital was $5.7&nbsp;billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $3.9&nbsp;billion.In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to holdtentative net capital in excess of $1.0&nbsp;billion and is also required to notify the Securities andExchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0&nbsp;billion, inaccordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix&nbsp;E of the Net Capital Rule. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum andnotification requirements.Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the risks underlying its businessactivities, using internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm measures economic capitalprimarily based on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private equity risk.Credit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (IB, CB, TSS and AM) andconsumer businesses (RFS and CS).Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, both from defaults and from declines in the portfolio value due to creditdeterioration measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with an &#147;AA&#148; creditrating standard. Unexpected losses are losses in excess of those for which allowances for creditlosses are maintained. The capital methodology is based on several principal drivers of creditrisk: exposure at default (or loan-equivalent amount), default likelihood, credit spreads, lossseverity and portfolio correlation.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based on product and other relevant risksegmentation. Actual segment-level default and severity experience are used to estimate unexpectedlosses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level consistent with an &#147;AA&#148; credit rating standard.See Credit Risk Management on pages 116&#150;118 of this Annual Report for more information about thesecredit risk measures.Market risk capitalThe Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect therisk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by adverse movements inmarket variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and securities andcommodities prices, taking into account the liquidity of the financial instruments. Results fromdaily VaR, biweekly stress-tests, issuer credit spreads and default risk calculations, as well asother factors, are used to determine appropriate capital levels. Market risk capital is allocatedto each business segment based on its risk assessment. See MarketRisk Management on pages 142&#150;146of this Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottom-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based on actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environmentor the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm believes its model is consistent with the Basel IIFramework. See Operational Risk Management on pages 147&#150;148 of this Annual Report for moreinformation about operational risk.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities, third-party fund investments, andcommitments in the private equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a declinein equity markets and related asset devaluations. In addition to negative market fluctuations,potential losses in private equity investment portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk.Capital allocation for the private equity portfolio is based on measurement of the loss experiencesuffered by the Firm and other market participants over a prolonged period of adverse equity marketconditions.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital is based on the following objectives:Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require ifit were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Capital isalso allocated to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill and other intangiblesassociated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. Return on common equity is measuredand internal targets for expected returns are established as key measures of a business segment'sperformance.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm enhanced its line of business equity framework to betteralign equity assigned to the lines of business with changes anticipated to occur in each lineof business, and to reflect the competitive and regulatory landscape. The lines of business are nowcapitalized based on the Tier 1 common standard, rather than the Tier 1 capital standard. In 2011,the Firm will further evaluate its line-of-business equity framework as appropriate to reflectfuture Basel III Tier 1 common capital requirements.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCapital actionsDividendsOn February&nbsp;23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm's quarterly common stock dividendfrom $0.38 to $0.05 per share, effective with the dividend paid on April&nbsp;30, 2009, to shareholdersof record on April&nbsp;6, 2009. The action enabled the Firm to retain approximately $5.5&nbsp;billion incommon equity in each of 2010 and 2009, and was taken to ensure the Firm had sufficient capitalstrength in the event the very weak economic conditions that existed at the beginning of 2009deteriorated further. JPMorgan Chase declared quarterly cash dividends on its common stock in theamount of $0.05 per share for each quarter of 2010 and 2009.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 23 and Note 28 on pages 267&#150;268 and 273,respectively, of this Annual Report.The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on reported net income.IssuanceOn June&nbsp;5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8&nbsp;billion, or 163&nbsp;million shares, of common stock at $35.25 pershare. On September&nbsp;30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5&nbsp;billion, or 284&nbsp;million shares, of common stockat $40.50 per share. The proceeds from these issuances were used for general corporate purposes.For additional information regarding common stock, see Note 24 on page 268 of this Annual Report.Capital Purchase ProgramPursuantto the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, on October&nbsp;28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.Treasury, for total proceeds of $25.0&nbsp;billion, (i)&nbsp;2.5&nbsp;million shares of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock,and (ii)&nbsp;a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the Firm's common stock, at an exerciseprice of $42.42 per share, subject to certain antidilution and other adjustments. On June&nbsp;17, 2009,the Firm redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock and repaid the full$25.0&nbsp;billion principal amount together with accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury exchanged theWarrant for 88,401,697 warrants, each of which is a warrant to purchase a share of the Firm'scommon stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per share, and, on December&nbsp;11, 2009, sold the warrantsin a secondary public offering for $950&nbsp;million. The Firm did not purchase any of the warrants soldby the U.S. Treasury.Stock repurchasesUnder the stock repurchase program authorized by the Firm's Board of Directors, the Firm isauthorized to repurchase up to $10.0&nbsp;billion of the Firm's common stock plus the 88&nbsp;millionwarrants sold by the U.S.&nbsp;Treasury in 2009. During 2009, the Firm did notrepurchase any shares of its common stock or warrants. In the second quarter of 2010, the Firmresumed common stock repurchases, and during the year repurchased anaggregate of 78&nbsp;million sharesfor $3.0&nbsp;billion at an average price per share of $38.49. The Firm's share repurchase activities in2010 were intended to offset sharecount increases resulting from employee stock-based incentiveawards and were consistent with the Firm's goal of maintaining an appropriate sharecount. The Firmdid not repurchase any of the warrants during 2010. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, $3.2&nbsp;billion ofauthorized repurchase capacity remained with respect to the common stock, and all of the authorizedrepurchase capacity remained with respect to the warrants.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 of theSecurities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of common stock and warrants inaccordance with the repurchase program. A Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchaseits equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock &#150; for example,during internal trading &#147;black-out periods.&#148; All purchases under a Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 plan must be madeaccording to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublicinformation.The authorization to repurchase common stock and warrants will be utilized at management'sdiscretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact number of shares and warrants purchased issubject to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations affecting the amountand timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill andintangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportunities. Therepurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed throughopen market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of Rule10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part&nbsp;II, Item5, Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases ofequity securities, on pages 13&#150;14 of JPMorgan Chase's 2010 Form 10-K.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. The Firm's riskmanagement framework and governance structure are intended to provide comprehensive controls andongoing management of the major risks taken in its business activities. The Firm employs a holisticapproach to risk management to ensure the broad spectrum of risk types are considered in managingits business activities. The Firm's risk management framework is intended to create a culture ofrisk awareness and personal responsibility throughout the Firm where collaboration, discussion,escalation and sharing of information is encouraged.The Firm's overall risk appetite is established in the context of the Firm's capital, earningspower, and diversified business model. The Firm employs a formal risk appetite framework toclearly link risk appetite and return targets, controls and capital management. The Firm's CEO isresponsible for setting the overall risk appetite of the Firm and the LOB CEOs are responsible forsetting the risk appetite for their respective lines of business. The Risk PolicyCommittee of the Firm's Board of Directors approves the risk appetite policy on behalf of the entire Board of Directors.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure is based on the principle that each line of business isresponsible for managing the risk inherent in its business, albeit with appropriate Corporateoversight. Each line of business risk committee is responsible for decisions regarding thebusiness' risk strategy, policies and controls.Overlaying line of business risk management are four corporate functions with riskmanagement&#150;related responsibilities: Risk Management, the Chief Investment Office, CorporateTreasury, and Legal and Compliance.Risk Management operates independently to provide oversight of firmwide risk management andcontrols, and is viewed as a partner in achieving appropriate business objectives. Risk Managementcoordinates and communicates with each line of business through the line of business riskcommittees and chief risk officers to manage risk. The Risk Management function is headed by theFirm's Chief Risk Officer, who is a member of the Firm's Operating Committee and who reports to theChief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, primarily through the Board's Risk PolicyCommittee. The Chief Risk Officer is also a member of the line of business risk committees. Withinthe Firm's Risk Management function are units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operationalrisk and private equity risk, as well as risk reporting, risk policy and risk technology andoperations. Risk technology and operations is responsible for building the information technologyinfrastructure used to monitor and manage risk.The Chief Investment Office and Corporate Treasury are responsible for measuring, monitoring,reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk, and otherstructural risks.Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the above-referenced riskmanagement functions, the Firm also has an Investment Committee, an Asset-Liability Committee andthree other risk-related committees &#150; the Risk Working Group, the Global Counterparty Committeeand the Markets Committee. All of these committees are accountable to the Operating Committee. Themembership of these committees are composed of senior management of the Firm, includingrepresentatives of lines of business, Risk Management, Finance and other senior executives. Thecommittees meet frequently to discuss a broad range of topics including, for example, currentmarket conditions and other external events, risk exposures, and risk concentrations to ensure that theimpact of risk factors are considered broadly across the Firm's businesses.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe Asset-Liability Committee, chaired by the Corporate Treasurer, monitors the Firm'soverall interest rate risk and liquidity risk. ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving theFirm's liquidity policy and contingency funding plan. ALCO also reviews the Firm's funds transferpricing policy (through which lines of business &#147;transfer&#148; interest rate and foreign exchange riskto Corporate Treasury in the Corporate/Private Equity segment), earnings at risk, overall interestrate position, funding requirements and strategy, and the Firm's securitization programs (and anyrequired liquidity support by the Firm of such programs).The Investment Committee, chaired by the Firm's Chief Financial Officer, oversees global mergerand acquisition activities undertaken by JPMorgan Chase for its own account that fall outside thescope of the Firm's private equity and other principal finance activities.The Risk Working Group, chaired by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer, meets monthly to review issuesthat cross lines of business such as risk policy, risk methodology, risk concentrations, regulatorycapital and other regulatory issues, and such other topics referred to it by line of business riskcommittees.The Markets Committee, chaired by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer, meets weekly to review, monitorand discuss significant risk matters, which may include credit, market and operational risk issues;market moving events; large transactions; hedging strategies; reputation risk; conflicts ofinterest; and other issues.The Global Counterparty Committee, chaired by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer, reviews exposures tocounterparties when such exposure levels are above portfolio-established thresholds. The Committeemeets quarterly to review total exposures with these counterparties, with particular focus oncounterparty trading exposures to ensure that such exposures are deemed appropriate to support theFirm's trading activities, and to direct changes in exposure levels as needed.The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management, principally through the Board'sRisk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The Risk Policy Committee oversees senior managementrisk-related responsibilities, including reviewing management policies and performance against these policies and related benchmarks. The Audit Committee is responsible foroversight of guidelines and policies thatgovern the process by which risk assessment andmanagement is undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews with management the system ofinternal controls that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance ofcompliance with the Firm's operational risk management processes.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRisk monitoring and controlThe Firm's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk is critical to both itssoundness and profitability.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisLIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The ability to maintain surplus levels of liquiditythrough economic cycles is crucial to financial services companies, particularly during periods ofadverse conditions. The Firm's funding strategy is intended to ensure liquidity and diversity offunding sources to meet actual and contingent liabilities through both normal and stress periods.JPMorgan Chase's primary sources of liquidity include a diversified deposit base, which was $930.4billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, and access to the equity capital markets and long-term unsecured andsecured funding sources, including asset securitizations and borrowings from FHLBs. Additionally,JPMorgan Chase maintains large pools of highly-liquid unencumbered assets. The Firm activelymonitors the availability of funding in the wholesale markets across various geographic regions andin various currencies. The Firm's ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in avariety of geographic locations and in a range of tenors is intended to enhance financialflexibility and limit funding concentration risk.Management considers the Firm's liquidity position to be strong, based on its liquidity metrics asof December&nbsp;31, 2010, and believes that the Firm's unsecured and secured funding capacity issufficient to meet its on&#150; and off&#150;balance sheet obligations. The Firm was able to access thefunding markets as needed during 2010 and throughout the recent financial crisis.GovernanceThe Firm's governance process is designed to ensure that its liquidity position remains strong. TheAsset-Liability Committee reviews and approves the Firm's liquidity policy and contingency fundingplan. Corporate Treasury formulates and is responsible for executing the Firm's liquidity policyand contingency funding plan as well as measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm'sliquidity risk profile. JPMorgan Chase centralizes the management of global funding and liquidityrisk within Corporate Treasury to maximize liquidity access, minimize funding costs and enhanceglobal identification and coordination of liquidity risk. This centralized approach involvesfrequent communication with the business segments, disciplined management of liquidity at theparent holding company, comprehensive market-based pricing of all assets and liabilities,continuous balance sheet monitoring, frequent stress testing of liquidity sources, and frequentreporting to and communication with senior management and the Board of Directors regarding theFirm's liquidity position.Liquidity monitoringThe Firm employs a variety of metrics to monitor and manage liquidity. One set of analyses used bythe Firm relates to the timing of liquidity sources versus liquidity uses (e.g., funding gapanalysis and parent holding company funding, which is discussed below). A second set of analysesfocuses on ratios of funding and liquid collateral (e.g., measurements of the Firm's reliance onshort-term unsecured funding as a percentage of total liabilities, as well as analyses of therelationship of short-term unsecured funding to highly-liquid assets, the deposits-to-loans ratioand other balance sheet measures).The Firm performs regular liquidity stress tests as part of its liquidity monitoring. The purposeof the liquidity stress tests is intended to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Firm under bothidiosyncratic and systemic market stress conditions. These scenarios evaluate the Firm's liquidityposition across a full year horizon by analyzing the net funding gaps resulting from contractualand contingent cash and collateral outflows versus by the Firm's ability to generate additionalliquidity by pledging or selling excess collateral and issuing unsecured debt. The scenarios areproduced for the parent holding company and major bank subsidiaries as well as the Firm's majorU.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries.The idiosyncratic stress scenario employed by the Firm is a JPMorgan Chase-specific event thatevaluates the Firm's net funding gap after a short-term ratings downgrade from the current level ofA-1&#043;/P-1 to A-2/P-2. The systemic market stress scenario evaluates the Firm's net funding gapduring a period of severe market stress similar to market conditions in 2008 and assumes the Firmis not uniquely stressed versus its peers. The Firm's liquidityposition is strong under the Firm-defined stress scenarios outlinedabove.Parent holding companyLiquidity monitoring on the parent holding company takes into consideration regulatory restrictionsthat limit the extent to which bank subsidiaries may extend credit to the parent holding companyand other nonbank subsidiaries. Excess cash generated by parent holding company issuance activityis placed with both bank and nonbank subsidiaries in the form of deposits and advances to satisfy aportion of subsidiary funding requirements. The remainder of the excess cash is used to purchaseliquid collateral through reverse repurchase agreements. As discussed below, the Firm's liquiditymanagement activities are also intended to ensure that its subsidiaries have the ability togenerate replacement funding in the event the parent holding company requires repayment of theaforementioned deposits and advances.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe Firm closely monitors the ability of the parent holding company to meet all of its obligationswith liquid sources of cash or cash equivalents for an extended period of time without access tothe unsecured funding markets. The Firm targets pre-funding of parent holding company obligationsfor at least 12&nbsp;months; however, due to conservative liquidity management actions taken by the Firmin the current environment, the current pre-funding of such obligations is significantly greaterthan target.Global Liquidity ReserveIn addition to the parent holding company, the Firm maintains a significant amount of liquidity &#150;primarily at its bank subsidiaries, but also at its nonbank subsidiaries. The Global LiquidityReserve represents consolidated sources of available liquidity to the Firm, including cash ondeposit at central banks, and cash proceeds reasonably expected to be received in securedfinancings of highly liquid, unencumbered securities &#150; such as government-issued debt, government-and FDIC-guaranteed corporate debt, U.S. government agency debt and agency mortgage-backedsecurities (&#147;MBS&#148;). The liquidity amount anticipated to be realized from secured financings isbased on management's current judgment and assessment of the Firm's ability to quickly raisesecured financings. The Global Liquidity Reserve also includes the Firm's borrowing capacity atvarious FHLBs, the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central banks fromcollateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although considered as a source of availableliquidity, the Firm does not view borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount windowand various other central banks as a primary source of funding. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, the GlobalLiquidity Reserve was approximately $262&nbsp;billion.In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Firm has significant amounts of otherhigh-quality, marketable securities available to raise liquidity, such as corporate debt and equitysecurities.Basel IIIOn December&nbsp;16, 2010, the Basel Committee published the final Basel III rules pertaining to capitaland liquidity requirements, including minimum standards for short-term liquidity coverage &#150; theliquidity coverage ratio (the &#147;LCR&#148;) &#150; and term funding &#150; the net stable funding ratio (the&#147;NSFR&#148;). These minimum standards will be phased in over time. The observation period for both theLCR and the NSFR commences in 2011, with implementation in 2015 and 2018, respectively. For moreinformation, see the discussion on Basel III on page 104 of this Annual Report.FundingSources of fundsA key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through the RFS, CB, TSS and AMlines of business, which provides a stable source of funding and decreases reliance on thewholesale markets. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, total deposits for the Firm were $930.4&nbsp;billion,compared with $938.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Average total deposits for the Firm were $881.1billion during 2010, compared with $882.0&nbsp;billion during 2009. The Firm typically experienceshigher deposit balances at period ends driven by higher seasonal customer deposit inflows. Asignificant portion of the Firm's deposits are retail deposits (40% and 38% at December&nbsp;31, 2010and 2009, respectively), which are considered particularly stable as they are less sensitive tointerest rate changes or market volatility. A significant portion of the Firm's wholesale depositsare also considered stable sources of funding due to the nature of the relationships from whichthey are generated, particularly customers' operating service relationships with the Firm. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, the Firm's deposits-to-loans ratio was 134%, compared with 148% at December&nbsp;31,2009. The decline in the Firm's deposits-to-loans ratio was predominately due to an increase inloans resulting from the January&nbsp;1, 2010, implementation of new accounting guidance related toVIEs. The impact of the new accounting guidance on the deposits-to-loans ratio was partially offsetby continued attrition of the heritage Washington Mutual residential loan and credit card loanportfolios. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion ofthe results for the Firm's business segments and the BalanceSheet Analysis on pages 69&#150;88 and92&#150;94, respectively, of this Annual Report. For a more detailed discussion of the adoption of thenew accounting guidance, see Note 1 on pages 164&#150;165 of this Annual Report.Additional sources of funding include a variety of unsecured and secured short-term and long-terminstruments. Short-term unsecured funding sources include federal funds and Eurodollars purchased,certificates of deposit, time deposits, commercial paper and bank notes. Long-term unsecuredfunding sources include long-term debt, trust preferred capital debt securities, preferred stockand common stock.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe Firm's short-term secured sources of funding consist of securities loaned or sold underagreements to repurchase and borrowings from the Chicago, Pittsburgh and San Francisco FHLBs.Secured long-term funding sources include asset-backed securitizations, and borrowings from theChicago, Pittsburgh and San Francisco FHLBs.Funding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate global balance ofunsecured and secured funding at favorable rates.Short-term fundingThe Firm's reliance on short-term unsecured funding sources such as federal funds and Eurodollarspurchased, certificates of deposit, time deposits, commercial paper and bank notes is limited.Total commercial paper liabilities for the Firm were $35.4&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2010,compared with $41.8&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2009. However, of those totals, $29.2&nbsp;billion and$28.7&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, originated from deposits thatcustomers chose to sweep into commercial paper liabilities as a cash management product offered bythe Firm. Therefore, commercial paper liabilities sourced from wholesale funding markets were $6.2billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with $13.1&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2009. There were nomaterial differences between the average and year-end balances of commercial paper outstanding forthe year ended and as of December&nbsp;31, 2010.Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are secured predominantly by high qualitysecurities collateral, including government-issued debt, agency debt and agency MBS. The balancesof securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, which constitute a significant portionof the federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, was$273.3&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with $253.5&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2009. Therewere no material differences between the average and year-end balances of securities loaned or soldunder agreements to repurchase for the year ended and as of December&nbsp;31, 2010. The balancesassociated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due tocustomers' investment and financing activities; the Firm's demand for financing; the Firm's matchedbook activity; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm's liabilities, including its securedand unsecured financing (for both the investment and trading portfolios); and other market andportfolio factors. For additional information, see the Balance SheetAnalysis on pages 92&#150;94, Note13 on page 219 and Note 20 on page 264 of this Annual Report.The short-term portion of total other borrowed funds for the Firm was $34.3&nbsp;billion as of December31, 2010, compared with $32.9&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2009. There were no material differencesbetween the average and year-end balances of other borrowed funds for the year ended and as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2010.For additional information, see the table for Short-term and other borrowed funds on page 299 ofthis Annual Report.Long-term funding and issuanceDuring 2010, the Firm issued $36.1&nbsp;billion of long-term debt, including $17.1&nbsp;billion of seniornotes issued in the U.S. market, $2.9&nbsp;billion of senior notes issued in the non-U.S. markets, $1.5billion of trust preferred capital debt securities, and $14.6&nbsp;billion of IB structured notes. Inaddition, in January&nbsp;2011, the Firm issued $4.3&nbsp;billion of long-term debt, including $3.5&nbsp;billionof senior notes in the U.S. market and $800&nbsp;million of senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets.During 2009, the Firm issued $19.7&nbsp;billion of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt under the TemporaryLiquidity Guarantee Program. During 2009, the Firm also issued non-FDIC-guaranteed debt of $16.1billion (including $11.0&nbsp;billion of senior notes and $2.5&nbsp;billion of trust preferred capital debtsecurities issued in the U.S. market, and $2.6&nbsp;billion of senior notes issued in non-U.S. markets)and $15.5&nbsp;billion of IB structured notes. During 2010, $53.4&nbsp;billion of long-term debt matured orwere redeemed, including $907&nbsp;million of trust preferred capital debt securities redeemed onDecember&nbsp;28, 2010, through a tender offer, and $22.8&nbsp;billion of IB structured notes. During 2009,$55.7&nbsp;billion of long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) matured or wereredeemed, including $27.2&nbsp;billion of IB structured notes.In addition to the unsecured long-term funding and issuances discussed above, the Firm securitizesconsumer credit card loans, residential mortgages, auto loans and student loans for fundingpurposes. Loans securitized by the Firm's wholesale businesses are related to client-driventransactions and are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm. Effective January&nbsp;1,2010, certain Firm-sponsored credit card loan, student loan and auto loan securitization trustswere consolidated as a result of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. As a result ofconsolidating these securitization trusts, the maturities or redemptions of the beneficialinterests issued by the securitization trusts are reported as a component of the Firm's cash flowsfrom financing activities. During 2010, the Firm did not securitize any credit card loans,residential mortgage loans, auto loans or student loans through consolidated or nonconsolidatedsecuritization trusts. During 2009, the Firm securitized $26.5&nbsp;billion of credit card loans vianonconsolidated securitization trusts. During 2010, $25.8&nbsp;billion of loan securitizations maturedor were redeemed,including $24.9&nbsp;billion of credit card loan securitizations, $210&nbsp;million of auto loansecuritizations, $294&nbsp;million of residential mortgage loan securitizations and $326&nbsp;million ofstudent loan securitizations. For further discussion of loan securitizations, see Note 16 on pages244&#150;259 in this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsDuring 2010, the Firm borrowed $18.7&nbsp;billion of new long-term advances from the FHLBs, which wereoffset by $18.6&nbsp;billion of maturities. During 2009, the Firm did not access the FHLBs for any newlong-term advances and maturities were $9.5&nbsp;billion during the period.Termination of replacement capital covenantsIn connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred capital debt securities and itsnoncumulative perpetual preferred stock, the Firm had entered into Replacement Capital Covenants(&#147;RCCs&#148;). These RCCs granted certain rights to the holders of &#147;covered debt,&#148; as defined in theRCCs, that prohibited the repayment, redemption or purchase of such trust preferred capital debtsecurities and noncumulative perpetual preferred stock except, with limited exceptions, to theextent that JPMorgan Chase had received, in each such case, specified amounts of proceeds from thesale of certain qualifying securities. On December&nbsp;10, 2010, the Firm received consents from theholders of a majority in liquidation amount of the covered debt to the termination of the RCCs, andthe Firm terminated the RCCs pursuant to their terms.Cash flowsFor the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, cash and due from banks increased $1.4billion, and decreased $689&nbsp;million and $13.2&nbsp;billion, respectively. The following discussionhighlights the major activities and transactions that affected JPMorgan Chase's cash flows during2010, 2009 and 2008.Cash flows from operating activitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilities support the Firm's capital markets and lendingactivities, including the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale.Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to theamount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven activities, market conditionsand trading strategies. Management believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances andthe Firm's ability to generate cash through short- and long-term borrowings are sufficient to fundthe Firm's operating liquidity needs.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2010, net cash used by operating activities was $3.8&nbsp;billion,mainly driven by an increase primarily in trading assets&#151;debt and equity instruments; principallydue to improved market activity primarily in equity securities, foreign debt and physicalcommodities, partially offset by an increase in trading liabilities due to higher levels of positions taken to facilitate customer driven trading. Net cash was provided by net income and fromadjustments for non-cash items such as the provision for credit losses, depreciation andamortization and stock-based compensation. Additionally, proceeds from sales and paydowns of loansoriginated or purchased with an initial intent to sell were higher than cash used to acquire suchloans.For the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was$122.8&nbsp;billion and $23.9&nbsp;billion, respectively. In 2009, the net decline in trading assets andliabilities was affected by the impact of the challenging capital markets environment that existedin 2008, and continued into the first half of 2009. In 2009 and 2008, net cash generated fromoperating activities was higher than net income, largely as a result of adjustments for non-cashitems such as the provision for credit losses. In addition, for 2009 and 2008 proceeds from sales,securitizations and paydowns of loans originated or purchased with an initial intent to sell werehigher than cash used to acquire such loans, but the cash flows from these loan activitiesremained at reduced levels as a result of the lower activity in these markets.Cash flows from investing activitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantly include loans originated to be held for investment,the AFS securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning assets. For the year endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, net cash of $54.0&nbsp;billion was provided by investing activities. This resultedfrom a decrease in deposits with banks largely due to a decline in deposits placed with the FederalReserve Bank and lower interbank lending as market stress eased since the end of 2009; net salesand maturities of AFS securities used in the Firm's interest rate risk management activitieslargely due to repositioning of the portfolio in Corporate, in response to changes in the interestrate environment and to rebalance exposures; and a net decrease in the loan portfolio, driven bythe expected runoff of the Washington Mutual credit card portfolio, a decline in lower-yieldingpromotional credit card balances, continued runoff of the residential real estate portfolios, andrepayments and loan sales in IB and CB; the decrease was partially offset by higher originationsacross the wholesale and consumer businesses. Partially offsetting these cash proceeds was anincrease in securities purchased under resale agreements, predominantly due to higher financingvolume in IB; and cash used for business acquisitions, primarily RBS Sempra.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, net cash of $29.4&nbsp;billion was provided by investingactivities, primarily from a decrease in deposits with banks reflecting lower demand for inter-banklending and lower deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank relative to the elevated levels at the endof 2008; a net decrease in the loan portfolio across most businesses, driven by continued lower customer demand and loan sales in the wholesale businesses, lower charge volume on credit cards,slightly higher credit card securitizations, and paydowns; and the maturity of all asset-backedcommercial paper issued by money market mutual funds in connection with the AML facility of theFederal Reserve Bank of Boston. Largely offsetting these cash proceeds were net purchases of AFSsecurities associated with the Firm's management of interest rate risk and investment of cashresulting from an excess funding position.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisFor the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, net cash of $283.7&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities,primarily for: increased deposits with banks as the result of the availability of excess cash forshort-term investment opportunities through interbank lending, and reserve balances held by theFederal Reserve (which became an investing activity in 2008, reflecting a policy change of theFederal Reserve to pay interest to depository institutions on reserve balances); net purchases ofinvestment securities in the AFS portfolio to manage the Firm's exposure to interest ratemovements; net additions to the wholesale loan portfolio from organic growth in CB; additions tothe consumer prime mortgage portfolio as a result of the decision to retain, rather than sell, neworiginations of nonconforming prime mortgage loans; an increase in securities purchased underresale agreements reflecting growth in demand from clients for liquidity; and net purchases ofasset-backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds in connection with the Asset-BackedCommercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility (&#147;AML facility&#148;) of the FederalReserve Bank of Boston. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds from loan sales andsecuritization activities as well as net cash received from acquisitions and the sale of aninvestment. Additionally, in June&nbsp;2008, in connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the Firm soldassets acquired from Bear Stearns to the FRBNY and received cash proceeds of $28.85&nbsp;billion.Cash flows from financing activitiesThe Firm's financing activities primarily reflect cash flows related to raising customer deposits,and issuing long-termdebt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) as well as preferred and common stock. In2010, net cash used in financing activities was $49.2&nbsp;billion. This resulted from net payments oflong-term borrowings and trust preferred capital debt securities as new issuances were more thanoffset by payments primarily reflecting a decline in beneficial interests issued by consolidatedVIEs due to maturities related to Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts; a decline indeposits associated with wholesale funding activities due to the Firm's lower funding needs; lowerdeposit levels in TSS, offset partially by net inflows from existing customers and new business inAM, CB and RFS; a decline in commercial paper and other borrowed funds due to lower fundingrequirements; payments of cash dividends; and repurchases of common stock. Cash was generated as aresult of an increase in securities sold under repurchase agreements largely as a result of anincrease in activity levels in IB partially offset by a decrease in CIO reflecting repositioningactivities.In 2009, net cash used in financing activities was $153.1&nbsp;billion; this reflected a decline inwholesale deposits, predominantly in TSS, driven by the continued normalization of wholesaledeposit levels resulting from the mitigation of credit concerns, compared with the heightenedmarket volatility and credit concerns in the latter part of 2008; a decline in other borrowings,due to the absence of borrowings from the Federal Reserve under the Term Auction Facility program;net repayments of short-term advances from FHLBs and the maturity of the nonrecourse advances underthe Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility; the June&nbsp;17, 2009, repayment in full of the $25.0billion principal amount of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury; and the paymentof cash dividends on common and preferred stock. Cash was also used for the net payment oflong-term borrowings and trust preferred capital debt securities, as issuances of FDIC-guaranteeddebt and non-FDIC guaranteed debt in both the U.S. and European markets were more than offset byrepayments including long-term advances from FHLBs. Cash proceeds resulted from an increase insecurities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, partly attributable to favorable pricing andto financing the increased size of the Firm's AFS securities portfolio; and the issuance of $5.8billion of common stock. There were no repurchases in the open market of common stock or thewarrants during 2009.In 2008, net cash provided by financing activities was $247.0&nbsp;billion due to growth in wholesaledeposits, in particular, interest- and noninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by both new andexisting clients, and due to the deposit inflows related to the heightened volatility and creditconcerns affecting the global markets that began in the third quarter of 2008), as well asincreases in AM and CB (due to organic growth); proceeds of $25.0&nbsp;billion from the issuance ofpreferred stock and the Warrant to the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program; additionalissuances of common stock and preferred stock used for general corporate purposes; an increase inother borrowings due to nonrecourse secured advances under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AMLFacility to fund the purchase of asset-backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds;increases in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements inconnection with higher client demand for liquidity and to finance growth in the Firm's AFSsecurities portfolio; and a net increase in long-term borrowings due to a combination of non-FDICguaranteed debt and trust preferred capital debt securities issued prior to December&nbsp;4, 2008, andthe issuance of $20.8&nbsp;billion of FDIC-guaranteed long-term debt issued during the fourth quarter of2008. The fourth-quarter FDIC-guaranteed debt issuance was offset partially by maturities ofnon-FDIC guaranteed long-term debt during the same period. The increase in long-term borrowings andtrust preferred capital debt securities was used primarily to fund certain illiquid assets held bythe parent holding company and to build liquidity. Cash was also used to pay dividends on common and preferred stock. The Firm did not repurchaseany shares of its common stock during 2008.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these ratingscould have an adverse effect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirementsand decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, the Firm's funding requirements for VIEs and other third-partycommitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgradeon the funding requirementsfor VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, seeSpecial-purpose entities on page&nbsp;95 and Ratings profile ofderivative receivables MTM on page&nbsp;124, and Note&nbsp;6 on pages&nbsp;191&#150;199, respectively,of this Annual Report.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earningsstream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures.The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm's significant bankingsubsidiaries as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, were as follows.The senior unsecured ratings from Moody's, S&P and Fitch on JPMorgan Chase andits principal bank subsidiaries remained unchanged at December&nbsp;31, 2010, from December&nbsp;31, 2009. AtDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, Moody's and S&P's outlook remained negative, while Fitch's outlook remainedstable.Following the Firm's earnings release on January&nbsp;14, 2011, S&P and Moody's announced that theirratings on the Firm remained unchanged.If the Firm's senior long-term debt ratings were downgraded by one notch, the Firm believes theincremental cost of funds or loss of funding would be manageable, within the context of currentmarket conditions and the Firm's liquidity resources. JPMorgan Chase'sunsecured debt does notcontain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in thestructure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additionalcollateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm's credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings,or stock price.Several rating agencies have announced that they will be evaluating the effects of the financialregulatory reform legislation in order to determine the extent, if any, to which financialinstitutions, including the Firm, may be negatively impacted. There is no assurance the Firm'scredit ratings will not be downgraded in the future as a result of any such reviews.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. The Firm providescredit (for example, through loans, lending-related commitments, guarantees and derivatives) to avariety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to the individual consumer.Loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses are generally retained on thebalance sheet. Credit risk management actively monitors the wholesale portfolio to ensure that itis well diversified across industry, geography, risk rating, maturity and individual clientcategories. Portfolio management for wholesale loans includes, for the Firm's syndicated loanbusiness, distributing originations into the market place, targeting exposure held in the retainedwholesale portfolio at less than 10% of the customer facility. With regard to the consumer creditmarket, the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from a product, industry andgeographic perspective. Loss mitigation strategies are being employed for all home lendingportfolios. These strategies include rate reductions, forbearance and other actions intended tominimize economic loss and avoid foreclosure. In the mortgage business, originated loans are eitherretained in the mortgage portfolio or securitized and sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S.government-sponsored enterprises.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and implemented within the lines ofbusiness. The Firm's credit risk management governance consists of the following functions:Risk identificationThe Firmis exposed to credit risk through lending and capital markets activities. Credit RiskManagement works in partnership with the business segments in identifying and aggregating exposuresacross all lines of business.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on severalfactors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), risk measurement parameters(e.g., delinquency status and borrower's credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and riskmanagement and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managedworkout groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the amount of exposure should the obligor orthe counterparty default, the probability of default and the loss severity given a default event.Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable andunexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios as follows:Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated basis; for theconsumer portfolio, it is assessed primarily on a credit-scored basis.Risk-rated exposureRisk ratings are assigned to differentiate risk within the portfolio and are reviewed on an ongoingbasis by Credit Risk Management and revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers' current financialpositions, risk profiles and the related collateral. For portfolios that are risk-rated, probableand unexpected loss calculations are based on estimates of probability of default and loss severitygiven a default. These risk-rated portfolios are generally held in IB, CB, TSS and AM; they alsoinclude approximately $18&nbsp;billion of certain business banking and auto loans in RFS that arerisk-rated because they have characteristics similar to commercial loans. Probability of default isthe likelihood that a loan will not be repaid and will default. Probability of default iscalculated for each client who has a risk-rated loan (wholesale and certain risk-rated consumer loans). Lossgiven default is an estimate of losses given a default event and takes into considerationcollateral and structural support for each credit facility. Calculations and assumptions are basedon management information systems and methodologies which are under continual review.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable loss is based on astatistical analysis of inherent losses expected to emerge over discrete periods of time for eachportfolio. The credit-scored portfolio includes mortgage, home equity, certain business banking andauto loans, student loans, as well as credit card loans. Probable losses inherent in the portfolioare estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools,which take into account factors such as delinquency, geography, LTV ratios and credit scores.These analyses are applied to the Firm's current portfolios in order to estimate the severity oflosses, which determines the amount of probable losses. Other risk characteristics utilized toevaluate probable losses include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes in originationsources, portfolio seasoning, potential borrower behavior and the macroeconomic environment. Thesefactors and analyses are updated at least on a quarterly basis or more frequently as marketconditions dictate.Risk monitoring and controlThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of the approval and decision-making process of extending credit and to ensure creditrisks are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at boththe transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines formanagement of distressed exposure.Forconsumer credit risk, delinquency and other trends, including any concentrations at theportfolio level, are monitored for potential problems, as certain of these trends can be amelioratedthrough changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Managementevaluates delinquency and other trends against business expectations, current and forecastedeconomic conditions, and industry benchmarks. All of these historical and forecasted trends areincorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and are part of the monitoringof the credit risk profile of the portfolio.Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfolio, industry and individualcounterparty basis with established concentration limits that are reviewed and revised, as deemedappropriate by management, on an annual basis. Industry and counterparty limits, as measured interms of exposure and economic credit risk capital, are subject tostress-based loss constraints forthe aggregate portfolio.Management of the Firm's wholesale exposure is accomplished through a number of means including:In addition to Risk Management, the Firm's Audit department provides periodic reviews, as well ascontinuous monitoring, where appropriate, of the Firm's consumer and wholesale portfolios.In the Firm's wholesale and certain risk-rated consumer credit portfolios, a credit review groupwithin the Audit department is responsible for:In the Firm's consumer credit portfolio, the Audit department periodically tests the internalcontrols around the modeling process including the integrity of the data utilized. In addition, therisk inherent in the Firm's consumer based loans is evaluated using models whose construction,assumptions and on-going performance relative to expectations are reviewed by an independent riskmanagement group that is separate from the lines of business. For further discussion on consumerloans, see Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit qualityforecasts, concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior CreditRisk Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product and geographicconcentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses isreviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting andgovernance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, anddiscussed with, senior management. For further discussion of risk monitoring and control, see page109 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2010 Credit risk overviewDuring 2010, the credit environment improved compared with 2009, resulting in decreased downgrade,default and charge-off activity and improved delinquency trends. Despite challengingmacroeconomic conditions, particularly in the first half of 2010, the Firm continued to activelymanage its underperforming and nonaccrual loans and reduce such exposures through repayments, loansales and workouts. These efforts resulted in an improvement in the credit quality of the portfoliocompared with 2009 and contributed to the Firm's reduction in the allowance for credit losses,particularly in CS and IB. During the year and particularly in the second half of 2010, customerdemand for credit improved, loan origination activity and market liquidity improved and creditspreads tightened from 2009.In the wholesale portfolio, criticized assets, nonperforming assets and charge-offs decreased frompeak loss levels experienced in 2009, reflecting general improvement in the portfolio, partiallyoffset by continued weakness in commercial real estate (&#147;CRE&#148;). Toward the end of 2010, CREexposure showed some positive signs of stabilization as property values improved somewhat from thedeclines witnessed over the prior two years. The wholesale portfolio continues to be activelymanaged, in part by conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews of creditquality and of industry, productand client concentrations. Underwriting guidelines across all areas of lending have remained infocus, consistent with evolving market conditions and the Firm's risk management activities.Reflecting the improvementin credit quality of the wholesale portfolio throughout the year, thewholesale allowance for loan loss coverage ratio was 2.14%, compared with 3.57% at the end of 2009.For further discussion of the wholesale credit environment and wholesale loans, see WholesaleCredit Portfolio on pages 120&#150;129 and Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.The consumer portfolio credit performance improved from 2009 with lower delinquent loans,nonperforming assets and charge-offs. However, credit performance continued to be negativelyaffected by the economic environment. High unemployment and weak overall economic conditionscontinued to have a negative impact in the number of loans charged off, while continued weakhousing prices have resulted in an elevated severity of loss recognized on defaulted real estateloans. The Firm has taken proactive action to assist homeowners most in need of financialassistance throughout the economic downturn. The Firm is participating in the U.S. Treasury's MHAprograms and continuing its other loss-mitigation efforts for financially distressed borrowers whodo not qualify for the U.S. Treasury's programs. In addition, over the past several years, the Firmhas taken actions to reduce risk exposure to consumer loans by tightening both underwriting andloan qualification standards, as well as eliminating certain productsand loan origination channels. For furtherdiscussion of the consumer credit environment and consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio onpages 129&#150;138 and Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and2009. Total credit exposure of $1.8 trillion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, decreased by $46.9&nbsp;billion fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, reflecting a decrease of $83.8&nbsp;billion in the consumer portfolio, partly offsetby an increase of $36.9&nbsp;billion in the wholesale portfolio. During 2010, lending-relatedcommitments decreased by $36.3&nbsp;billion, loans decreased by $25.2&nbsp;billion and receivables fromcustomers increased by $16.8&nbsp;billion. The overall decrease in total loans was primarily related torepayments, low customer demand and loan sales, partially offset by the adoption of the accountingguidance related to VIEs, predominantly in the wholesale portfolio.While overall portfolio exposure declined, the Firm provided and raised nearly $1.4 trillion in newand renewed credit and capital for consumers, corporations, small businesses, municipalities andnot-for-profit organizations during 2010.&nbsp; Table of ContentsIn the table below, reported loans include loans retained; loans held-for-sale (which are carriedat the lower of cost or fair value, with changes in value recorded in noninterest revenue); andloans accounted for at fair value. For additional information on the Firm's loans and derivativereceivables, including the Firm's accounting policies, see Notes 14 and 6 on pages 220&#150;238 and191&#150;199, respectively, of this Annual Report. Average retained loan balances are used for the netcharge-off rate calculations.Total credit portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisWHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AM) increased by $36.9&nbsp;billionfrom December&nbsp;31, 2009. The overall increase was primarily driven by increases of $23.5&nbsp;billion inloans and $16.8&nbsp;billion of receivables from customers, partiallyoffset by decreases in interests inpurchase receivables and lending-related commitments of $2.5&nbsp;billion and $1.1&nbsp;billion,respectively. The decrease in lending-related commitments and the increase in loans were primarilyrelated to the January&nbsp;1, 2010, adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs, which resultedin the elimination of a net $17.7&nbsp;billion of lending-related commitments between the Firm anditsadministrated multi-seller conduits upon consolidation. Assets of the consolidated conduitsincluded $15.1&nbsp;billion of wholesale loans at January&nbsp;1, 2010. Excluding the effect of theaccounting guidance, lending-related commitments and loans would have increased by $16.6&nbsp;billionand $8.4&nbsp;billion, respectively, mainly related to increased client activity. The increase in loansalso included the purchase of a $3.5&nbsp;billion loan portfolio inCB during the third quarter of 2010. Theincrease of $16.8&nbsp;billion in receivables from customers was dueto increased client activity,predominantly in Prime Services.WholesaleThe following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesaleportfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal riskratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's. Also included inthis table is the notional value of net credit derivative hedges; the counterparties to thesehedges are predominantly investment grade banks and finance companies.&nbsp; Table of ContentsWholesale credit exposure &#150; maturity and ratings profileCustomer receivables representing primarily margin loans to prime and retail brokerageclients of $32.5&nbsp;billion and $15.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, areincluded in the table. These margin loans are generally over-collateralized through a pledge ofassets maintained in clients' brokerage accounts and are subject to daily minimum collateralrequirements. In the event that the collateral value decreases, amaintenance margin call is made to theclient to provide additional collateral into the account. If additional collateral is not providedby the client, the client's positions may be liquidated by the Firm to meet the minimum collateralrequirements.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, with particularattention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticizedgenerally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of &#147;CCC&#043;&#148;/&#148;Caa1&#148; and lower, as defined byS&P and Moody's. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value, decreased to $22.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, from $33.2&nbsp;billion atyear-end 2009. The decrease was primarily related to net repayments and loan sales.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisBelow are summaries of the top 25 industry exposures as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. Foradditional information on industry concentrations, see Note 5 on pages 189&#150;190 of this AnnualReport.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry exposuresPresented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significantexposure, as well as industries the Firm continues to monitor because of actual or potential creditconcerns. For additional information, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page.&nbsp; Table of Contents &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the geographic distribution of wholesale credit, nonperforming assetsand past due loans as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. The geographic distribution of the wholesaleportfolio is determined based predominantly on the domicile of the borrower. &nbsp; Table of ContentsLoansIn the normal course of business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of wholesale customers, fromlarge corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. For further discussion onloans, including information on credit quality indicators, see Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of thisAnnual Report.Retained wholesale loans were $222.5&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with $200.1&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009. The $22.4&nbsp;billion increase was primarily related to the January&nbsp;1, 2010,adoption of accounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effect of the adoption of theaccounting guidance, loans increased by $7.4&nbsp;billion. Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair valuerelate primarily to syndicated loans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio.The Firm actively manages wholesale credit exposure through sales of loans and lending-relatedcommitments. During 2010 the Firm sold $7.7&nbsp;billion of loans and commitments, recognizing revenuegains of $98.9&nbsp;million. In 2009, the Firm sold $3.9&nbsp;billion of loans and commitments, recognizingnet losses of $38&nbsp;million. These results included gains or losses on sales of nonaccrual loans, ifany, as discussed below. These activities are not related to the Firm's securitization activities.For further discussion of securitization activity, see Liquidity Risk Management and Note 16 onpages 110&#150;115 and 244&#150;259 respectively, of this Annual Report.The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan portfolio for the years endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009.Wholesale nonaccrual loan activity(a) Nonaccrual wholesale loans decreased by $898&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2009, reflecting primarilynet repayments and loan sales.The following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as gross charge-offs lessrecoveries, for the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. The amounts in the table below do notinclude revenue gains from sales of nonaccrual loans.Wholesale net charge-offsDerivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly formarket-making activity. Derivatives enable customers and the Firm tomanage exposures tofluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses derivativeinstruments to manage its credit exposure. For further discussion ofderivative contracts, see Note 5and Note 6 on pages 189&#150;190 and 191&#150;199, respectively, of this Annual Report.The following tables summarize the net derivative receivables MTM for the periods presented.Derivative receivables MTMDerivative receivables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets were $80.5&nbsp;billion and $80.2billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These represent the fair value (e.g. MTM) ofthe derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements, cashcollateral held by the Firm and the credit valuation adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;). These amounts reported onthe Consolidated Balance Sheets represent the cost to the Firm to replace the contracts at currentmarket rates should the counterparty default. However, in management's view, the appropriate measure of currentcredit risk should also reflect additional liquid securities and other cash collateral held by theFirm of $16.5&nbsp;billion and $15.5&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting intotal exposure, net of all collateral, of $64.0&nbsp;billion and $64.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and2009, respectively.The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions,as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral thatthe Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Though thiscollateral does not reduce the balances noted in the table above, it is available as securityagainst potential exposure that could arise should the MTM of the client's derivative transactionsmove in the Firm's favor. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm held $18.0&nbsp;billion and $16.9billion, respectively, of this additional collateral. The derivative receivables MTM, net of allcollateral, also do not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisWhile useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;),and Average exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, whereapplicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5% confidencelevel. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intendedto be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The measurement is done by equating the unexpectedloss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the loss volatilityand the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takesinto consideration only the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure ofpotential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval ofderivative transactions.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables at futuretime periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of thederivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculatecredit capital and the CVA, as further described below. AVG exposure was $45.3&nbsp;billion and $49.0billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared with derivative receivables MTM, netof all collateral, of $64.0&nbsp;billion and $64.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflectthe credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and thecounterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. Theprimary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changesin the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential tocontrolling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm's creditapproval process takes into consideration the potential for correlation between the Firm's AVG to acounterparty and the counterparty's credit quality. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes inCVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange,equity and commodity derivative transactions.The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10&nbsp;years as calculatedby the DRE and AVG metrics. The two measures generally show declining exposure after the firstyear, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresThe following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's derivative receivables MTM,net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated.Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTMAs noted above, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty creditrisk in derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateralagreements &#150; excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by collateralagreements due to their short maturity &#150; was 88% as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, largely unchanged from89% at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The Firm posted $58.3&nbsp;billion and $56.7&nbsp;billion of collateral at December31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Credit derivativesFor risk management purposes, the Firm is primarily a purchaser of credit protection. As apurchaser of credit protection, the Firm has risk that the counterparty providing the creditprotection will default. As a seller of credit protection, the Firm has risk that the underlyinginstrument referenced in the contract will be subject to a credit event.The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-makerin the dealer/client business to meet the needs of customers; and second, in order to mitigate theFirm's own credit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables and traditionalcommercial credit lending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments).&nbsp; Table of ContentsOf the Firm's $80.5&nbsp;billion of total derivative receivables MTM at December&nbsp;31, 2010, $7.7&nbsp;billion,or 10%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid securities collateral.One type of credit derivatives the Firm enters into with counterparties are credit default swaps(&#147;CDS&#148;). The large majority of CDS are subject to collateral arrangements to protect the Firm fromcounterparty credit risk. The use of collateral to settle against defaulting counterpartiesgenerally performed asdesigned in significantly mitigating the Firm's exposure to thesecounterparties. In 2010, the frequency and size of defaults related to the underlying debtreferenced in credit derivatives was lower than 2009. For furtherdiscussion of derivatives, see Note&nbsp;6 on pages&nbsp;191&#150;199of this Annual Report.The following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protection purchasedand sold as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, distinguishing between dealer/client activity and creditportfolio activity. Dealer/client businessWithin the dealer/client business, the Firm actively manages credit derivatives by buying andselling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, according to client demand.For further information, see Note 6 on pages 191&#150;199 of this Annual Report.At December&nbsp;31, 2010, the total notional amount of protection purchased and sold decreased by$496.1&nbsp;billion from year-end 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of industry effortsto reduce offsetting trade activity.Credit portfolio activitiesManagement of the Firm's wholesale exposure is accomplished through a number of means includingloan syndication and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of masternetting agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques. The Firm also manages itswholesale credit exposure by purchasing protection through single-name and portfolio creditderivatives to manage the credit risk associated with loans, lending-related commitments andderivative receivables. Changes in credit risk on the credit derivatives are expected to offsetchanges in credit risk on the loans, lending-related commitments or derivative receivables. Thisactivity does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reportedoff&#150;balance sheet commitments, although it does provide the Firm with credit risk protection. TheFirm also diversifies its exposures by selling credit protection, which increases exposure toindustries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related exposure; however, thisactivity is not material to the Firm's overall credit exposure.Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivativesThe credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, withgains and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans andlending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Thisasymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the creditderivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is notrepresentative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall creditexposure. The MTM value related to the Firm's credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure,as well as the MTM value related to the CVA (which reflects the credit quality of derivativescounterparty exposure) are included in the gains and losses realized on credit derivativesdisclosed in the table below. These results can vary from period to period due to market conditionsthat affect specific positions in the portfolio.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisLending-related commitmentsJPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments and guarantees, tomeet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instrumentsrepresents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on thesecommitments or the Firm fulfills its obligation under theseguarantees, and should the counterpartiessubsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.Wholesale lending-related commitments were $346.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with$347.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The decrease reflected the January&nbsp;1, 2010, adoption ofaccounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effect of the accounting guidance,lending-related commitments would have increased by $16.6&nbsp;billion.In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments isnot representative of the Firm's actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. Indetermining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-relatedcommitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these commitments,the Firm has established a &#147;loan-equivalent&#148; amount for each commitment; this amount represents theportion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on averageportfolio historical experience, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. Theloan-equivalent amounts of the Firm's lending-related commitments were $189.9&nbsp;billion and $179.8billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Country exposureThe Firm's wholesale portfolio includes country risk exposures to both developed and emergingmarkets. The Firm seeks to diversify its country exposures, including its credit-related lending,trading and investment activities, whether cross-border or locally funded.Country exposure under the Firm's internal risk management approach is reported based on thecountry where the assets of the obligor, counterparty or guarantor are located. Exposure amounts,including resale agreements, are adjusted for collateral and for credit enhancements (e.g.,guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties; outstandings supported by a guarantorlocated outside the country or backed by collateral held outside the country are assigned to thecountry of the enhancement provider. In addition, the effect of credit derivative hedges and othershort credit or equity trading positions are taken into consideration. Total exposure measuresinclude activity with both government and private-sector entities in a country.The Firm also reports country exposure for regulatory purposes following FFIEC guidelines, whichare different from the Firm's internal risk management approach for measuring country exposure. Foradditional information on the FFIEC exposures, see Cross-border outstandings on page 314 of thisAnnual Report.Several European countries, including Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Ireland, have been subjectto credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. The Firm isclosely monitoring its exposures to these five countries. Aggregate net exposures to these fivecountries as measured under the Firm's internal approach was less than $15.0&nbsp;billion at December31, 2010, with no country representing a majority of the exposure. Sovereign exposure in all fivecountries represented less than half the aggregate net exposure. The Firm currently believes itsexposure to these five countries is modest relative to the Firm's overall risk exposures and ismanageable given the size and types of exposures to each of the countries and the diversificationof the aggregate exposure. The Firm continues to conduct business and support client activity inthese countries and, therefore, the Firm's aggregate net exposures may vary over time. In addition,the net exposures may be impacted by changes in market conditions, and the effects of interestrates and credit spreads on market valuations.As part of its ongoing country risk management process, the Firm monitors exposure to emergingmarket countries, and utilizes country stress tests to measure and manage the risk of extreme lossassociated with a sovereign crisis. There is no common definition of emerging markets, but the Firmgenerally includes in its definition those countries whose sovereign debt ratings are equivalent to&#147;A&#043;&#148; or lower. The table below presents the Firm's exposure to its top 10 emerging marketscountries based on its internal measurement approach. The selection of countries is based solely onthe Firm's largest total exposures by country and does not represent its view of any actual orpotentially adverse credit conditions.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTop 10 emerging markets country exposureCONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages, homeequity loans, credit cards, auto loans, student loans and business banking loans. The Firm'sprimary focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market. For further information on theconsumer loans, see Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.A substantial portion of the consumer loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction wereidentified as purchased credit-impaired based on an analysis of high-risk characteristics,including product type, LTV ratios, FICO scores and delinquency status. These PCI loans areaccounted for on a pool basis, and the pools are considered to beperforming. See pages 132&#150;134of this Annual Report for further information on the purchased credit-impaired loans.The credit performance of the consumer portfolio across the entire product spectrum has stabilizedbut high unemployment and weak overall economic conditions continue to put pressure on the numberof loans charged off, and weak housing prices continue to negatively affect the severity of lossrecognized on real estate loans that default. Delinquencies and nonaccrual loans remain elevatedbut have improved. The delinquency trend exhibited improvement in the first half of 2010;early-stage delinquencies (30&#150;89&nbsp;days delinquent) then flattened across most RFS products early inthe second half of the year, before once again showing improvement at the end of the year.Late-stage residential real estate delinquencies (150&#043; days delinquent) remainelevated. Theelevated level of these credit quality metrics is due, in part, to loss-mitigation activitiescurrently being undertaken and elongated foreclosure processing timelines. Losses related to theseloans continued to be recognized in accordance with the Firm's standard charge-off practices, butsome delinquent loans that would have otherwise been foreclosed upon remain in the mortgage andhome equity loan portfolios.Since mid-2007, the Firm has taken actions to reduce risk exposure to consumer loans by tighteningboth underwriting and loan qualification standards, as well as eliminating certain products andloan origination channels for residential real estate lending. The tightening of underwriting criteria for autoloans has resulted in the reduction of both extended-term and high LTV financing. In addition, neworiginations of private student loans are limited to school-certified loans, the majority of whichinclude a qualified co-borrower.As a further action to reduce risk associated with lending-related commitments, the Firm hasreduced or canceled certain lines of credit as permitted by law. For example, the Firm may reduceor close home equity lines of credit when there are significant decreases in the value of theunderlying property or when there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of theborrower. Also, the Firm typically closes credit card lines when the borrower is 60&nbsp;days or morepast due. Finally, certain inactive credit card lines have been closed, and a number of activecredit card lines have been reduced.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThefollowing table presents managed consumer credit&#150;related information (including RFS, CSand residential real estate loans reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment) for the datesindicated. For further information about the Firm's nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies,see Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.Consumer &nbsp; Table of ContentsEffective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm adopted accounting guidance related to VIEs. Uponadoption of this guidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitizationtrusts and certain other consumer loan securitization entities. The following table summarizes theimpact on consumer loans at adoption.Reported loansConsumer, excluding credit cardPortfolio analysisThe following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-related categories. Purchasedcredit-impaired loans are excluded from individual loan product discussions and are addressedseparately below. For further information about the Firm's consumer portfolio, related delinquencyinformation and other credit quality indicators, see Note 14 on pages220&#150;238 of this AnnualReport.It is the Firm's policy to charge down residential real estate loans to net realizable value at nolater than 180&nbsp;days past due. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Firm recorded an aggregateadjustment of $632&nbsp;million to increase net charge-offs related to the estimated net realizablevalue of the collateral underlying delinquent residential home loans. Because these losses werepreviously recognized in the provision and allowance for loan losses, this adjustment had no impacton the Firm's net income. The impact of this aggregate adjustment on reported net charge-off ratesis provided in footnote&nbsp;(n) above.Homeequity: Home equity loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, were $88.4&nbsp;billion, compared with $101.4billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The decrease in this portfolio primarily reflected loan paydowns andcharge-offs. Junior lien net charge-offs declined from the prior year but remained high. Seniorlien nonaccrual loans remained relatively flat, while junior lien nonaccrual loans decreased fromprior year-end as a result of improvement in early-stage delinquencies.Improvements indelinquencies and charge-offs slowed during the second half of the year and stabilized at theseelevated levels. In addition to delinquent accounts, the Firm monitors current junior lien loanswhere the borrower has a first mortgage loan which is eitherdelinquent or has been modified, assuch junior lien loans are considered to be at higher risk of delinquency. The portfolio containedan estimated $4&nbsp;billion of such junior lien loans. The risk associated with these junior lien loanswas considered in establishing the allowance for loan losses at December&nbsp;31, 2010.Mortgage: Mortgage loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, including prime and subprime mortgages and mortgageloans held-for-sale, were $86.0&nbsp;billion, compared with $88.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Thedecrease was primarily due to portfolio runoff, partially offset by the addition of loans to thebalance sheet as a result of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. Netcharge-offs decreased from the prior year but remained elevated.Prime mortgages at December&nbsp;31, 2010, including option ARMs, were $74.7&nbsp;billion, compared with$75.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The decrease in loans was due to paydowns and charge-offs ondelinquent loans, partially offset by the addition of loans as a result of the adoption of theaccounting guidance related to VIEs. Early-stage delinquencies showed improvement during the yearbut remained at elevated levels. Late-stage delinquencies increased during the first half of theyear, then trended lower for several months before flattening toward the end of 2010. Nonaccrualloans showed improvement, but also remained elevated as a result of ongoing modification activityand foreclosure processing delays. Charge-offs declined year over year but remained high.Option ARMloans, which are included in the prime mortgage portfolio, were $8.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010,and represented 11% of the prime mortgage portfolio. These are primarily loans with low LTV ratiosand high borrower FICOs. Accordingly, the Firm expects substantially lower losses on this portfoliowhen compared with the PCI option ARM pool. As of December&nbsp;31,2010, approximately 8% ofthe option ARM borrowers were delinquent, 4% were making interest-only or negatively amortizingpayments, and 88% were making amortizing payments. Substantially all borrowers within theportfolio are subject to risk of payment shock due to future payment recast as a limited number ofthese loans have been modified. The cumulative amount of unpaid interest added to the&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisunpaid principal balance due to negative amortization of option ARMs was $24&nbsp;million and $78million at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. TheFirm estimates the following balances of option ARM loans will experience a recast that results in a payment increase: $72million in 2011, $241&nbsp;million in 2012 and $784 million in 2013. The Firm did not originate optionARMs and new originations of option ARMs were discontinued by Washington Mutual prior to the dateof JPMorgan Chase's acquisition of its banking operations.Subprime mortgages at December&nbsp;31, 2010 were $11.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $12.5&nbsp;billion at December31, 2009. The decrease was due to paydowns and charge-offs on delinquent loans, partially offset bythe addition of loans as a result of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs.Late-stage delinquencies remained elevated but continued to improve, albeit at a slower rate duringthe second half of the year, while early-stage delinquencies stabilized at an elevated level duringthis period. Nonaccrual loans improved largely as a result of the improvement in late-stagedelinquencies. Charge-offs reflected modest improvement.Auto: Auto loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, were $48.4&nbsp;billion, compared with $46.0&nbsp;billion at December31, 2009. Delinquent and nonaccrual loans have decreased. In addition, net charge-offs havedeclined 52% from the prior year. Provision expense decreased due to favorable loss severity as aresult of a strong used-car market nationwide and reduced loss frequency due to the tightening ofunderwriting criteria in earlier periods. The auto loan portfolio reflected a high concentration ofprime quality credits.Businessbanking: Business banking loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, were $16.8&nbsp;billion, compared with$17.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The decrease was primarily a result of run-off of theWashington Mutual portfolio and charge-offs on delinquent loans. These loans primarily includeloans which are highly collateralized, often with personal loan guarantees. Nonaccrual loanscontinued to remain elevated. After having increased during the first half of 2010, nonaccrualloans as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, declined to year-end 2009 levels.Student and other: Student and other loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, including loans held-for-sale,were $15.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $16.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Other loans primarily includeother secured and unsecured consumer loans. Delinquencies reflected some stabilization in thesecond half of 2010, but remained elevated. Charge-offs during 2010 remained relatively flat with2009 levels reflecting the impact of elevated unemployment levels.Purchasedcredit-impaired loans: PCI loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, were $72.8&nbsp;billion compared with$81.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. This portfolio represents loans acquired in the WashingtonMutual transaction that were recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition. That fair valueincluded an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over the remaining lives of theloans, and therefore no allowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of theacquisition date.The Firm regularly updates the amount of principal and interest cash flows expected to be collectedfor these loans. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows would trigger therecognition of impairment through the provision for loan losses. Probable and significant increasesin expected cash flows (e.g., decreased principal credit losses, the net benefit of modifications)would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan losses, with any remaining increasein the expected cash flows recognized prospectively in interest income over the remaining estimatedlives of the underlying loans.During 2010, management concluded as part of the Firm's regular assessment of the PCI pools that itwas probable that higher expected principal credit losses would result in a decrease in expectedcash flows. Accordingly, the Firm recognized an aggregate $3.4&nbsp;billion impairment related to thehome equity, prime mortgage, option ARM and subprime mortgage PCI portfolios. As a result of thisimpairment, the Firm's allowance for loan losses for the home equity, prime mortgage, option ARMand subprime mortgage PCI portfolios was $1.6&nbsp;billion, $1.8&nbsp;billion, $1.5&nbsp;billion and $98&nbsp;million,respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with an allowance for loan losses of $1.1&nbsp;billion and$491&nbsp;million for the prime mortgage and option ARM PCI portfolios, respectively, at December&nbsp;31,2009.Approximately39% of the option ARM borrowers were delinquent, 5% were making interest-only ornegatively amortizing payments, and 56% were making amortizing payments. Approximately 50% ofcurrent borrowers are subject to risk of paymentshock due to future payment recast; substantially all of the remaining loans have been modified toa fixed rate fully amortizing loan. The cumulative amount of unpaid interest added to the unpaidprincipal balance of the option ARM PCI pool was $1.4&nbsp;billion and $1.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010and 2009, respectively. The Firm estimates the followingbalances of option ARM PCI loans will experience a recast that results in a payment increase: $1.2&nbsp;billion in 2011, $2.7billion in 2012 and $508&nbsp;million in 2013.The following table provides a summary of lifetime loss estimates included in both thenonaccretable difference and the allowance for loan losses. Principal charge-offs will not berecorded on these pools until the nonaccretable difference has been fully depleted. &nbsp; Table of ContentsGeographic composition and current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loansThe consumer credit portfolio is geographically diverse. The greatest concentration of residentialreal estate loans is in California. Excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agenciesand PCI loans, California-based loans retained represented 24% of total residential real estateloans retained at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with 25% at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Of the totalresidential real estate loan portfolio retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S.government agencies and PCI loans, $86.4&nbsp;billion, or 54%, were concentrated in California, NewYork, Arizona, Florida and Michigan at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with $95.9&nbsp;billion, or 54%, atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009.The current estimated average LTV ratio for residential real estate loans retained, excludingmortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 83% at December&nbsp;31, 2010,compared with 81% at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Excluding mortgage loans insuredby U.S. governmentagencies and PCI loans, 24% of the retained portfolio had a current estimated LTV ratio greaterthan 100%, and 10% of the retained portfolio had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 125% atDecember&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with 22% with a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 9%with a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 125%, at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The decline in homeprices had a significant impact on the collateral value underlying the Firm's residential realestate loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with high LTV ratios is greaterthan the delinquency rate for loans in which the borrower has equity in the collateral. While alarge portion of the loans with current estimated LTV ratios greater than 100% continue to pay andare current, the continued willingness and ability of these borrowers to pay remains uncertain.The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratio, as well as the ratio of the carryingvalue of the underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value, for PCI loans. Becausesuch loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratio of the carrying value to the currentestimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratio, which is based onthe unpaid principal balance. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do notrepresent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios arenecessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.LTVratios and ratios of carrying values to current estimated collateral values &#150; PCI loans &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisPCI loans in the states of California and Florida represented 53% and 10%,respectively, of total PCI loans at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with 54% and 11%, respectively, atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009. The current estimated average LTV ratios were 118% and 135% for California andFlorida loans, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2010, compared with 114% and 131%, respectively, atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009. Continued pressure on housing prices in California and Florida have contributednegatively to both the current estimated average LTV ratio and the ratio of carrying value tocurrent collateral value for loans in the PCI portfolio. For the PCI portfolio, 63% had a currentestimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 31% of the PCI portfolio had a current estimated LTVratio greater than 125% at December&nbsp;31, 2010; this compared with 59% of the PCI portfolio with acurrent estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 28% with a current estimated LTV ratio greaterthan 125%, at December&nbsp;31, 2009.The carrying value of PCI loans is below the current estimated collateral value of the loans and,accordingly, the ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on borrowers' behaviorand ongoing ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homes with negative equity, aswell as on the cost of alternative housing. For further information on the geographic compositionand current estimated LTVs of residential real estate &#151; non PCI and PCI loans, see Note 14 onpages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report.Loan modification activitiesFor additional information about consumer loan modification activities, including consumer loanmodifications accounted for as troubled debt restructurings, see Note14 on pages 220&#150;238 of thisAnnual Report.Residential real estate loans: For both the Firm's on-balance sheet loans and loans serviced forothers, more than 1,038,000 mortgage modifications have been offered to borrowers and approximately318,000 have been approved since the beginning of 2009. Of these, approximately 285,000 haveachieved permanent modification as of December&nbsp;31, 2010. Of the remaining 720,000 modifications,34% are in a trial period or still being reviewed for a modification, while 66% have dropped out ofthe modification program or otherwise were not eligible for final modification.The Firm is participating in the U.S. Treasury's MHA programs and is continuing to expand its otherloss-mitigation efforts for financially distressed borrowers who do not qualify for the U.S.Treasury's programs. The MHA programs include the Home Affordable Modification Program (&#147;HAMP&#148;) andthe Second Lien Modification Program (&#147;2MP&#148;); these programs mandate standard modification termsacross the industry and provide incentives to borrowers, servicers and investors who participate.The Firm completed its first permanent modifications under HAMP in September&nbsp;2009. Under 2MP, whichthe Firm implemented in May&nbsp;2010, homeowners are offered a way to modify their second mortgage tomake it more affordable when their first mortgage has been modified under HAMP.The Firm's other loss-mitigation programs for troubled borrowers who do not qualify for HAMPinclude the traditional modification programs offered by the GSE's and Ginnie Mae, as well as theFirm's proprietary modification programs, which include similar concessions to those offered underHAMP but with expanded eligibility criteria. In addition, the Firm has offered modificationprograms targeted specifically to borrowers with higher-risk mortgage products.MHA, as well as the Firm's other loss-mitigation programs, generally provide various concessions tofinancially troubled borrowers, including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term orpayment extensions, and deferral of principal payments that would have otherwise been requiredunder the terms of the original agreement. For the 54,500 on&#151;balance sheet loans modified underHAMP and the Firm's other loss-mitigation programs since July&nbsp;1, 2009, 55% of permanentloan modifications have included interest rate reductions, 49% have included term or paymentextensions, 9% have included principal deferment and 22% have included principal forgiveness.Principal forgiveness has been limited to a specific modification program for option ARMs. The sumof the percentages of the types of loan modifications exceeds 100% because, in some cases, themodification of an individual loan includes more than one type of concession.Generally, borrowers must make at least three payments under the revised contractual terms during atrial modification and be successfully re-underwritten with income verification before a mortgageor home equity loan can be permanently modified. When the Firm modifies home equity lines ofcredit, future lending commitments related to the modified loans are canceled as part of the termsof the modification.The ultimate success of these modification programs and their impact on reducing credit lossesremains uncertain given the short period of time since modification. The primary indicator used bymanagement to monitor the success of these programs is the rate at which the modified loansredefault. Modification redefault rates are affected by a number of factors, including the type ofloan modified, the borrower's overall ability and willingness to repay the modified loan and othermacroeconomic factors. Reduction in payment size for a borrower has shown to be the mostsignificant driver in improving redefault rates. Modifications completed after July&nbsp;1, 2009,whether under HAMP or under the Firm's other modification programs, differ from modificationscompleted under prior programs in that they are generally fully underwritten after a &nbsp; Table of Contentssuccessfultrial payment period of at least three months. Approximately 87% of on&#150;balance sheetmodifications completed since July&nbsp;1, 2009, were completed in 2010, with approximately 10%completed as recently as the fourth quarter of 2010. Performance metrics to date for modifications seasonedmore than six months showweighted average redefault rates of 25% and 28% for HAMP and the Firm'sother modification programs, respectively. While these rates compare favorably to equivalentmetrics for modifications completed under prior programs, ultimate redefault rates will remainuncertain until modified loans have seasoned.The following table presents information as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, relating torestructured on&#150;balance sheet residential real estate loans for which concessions have beengranted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to beaccounted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated intothe Firm's quarterly assessment of estimated future cash flows. Modifications of consumer loansother than PCI loans are generally accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings(&#147;TDRs&#148;).Restructured residential real estate loansForeclosure prevention: Foreclosure is a last resort and the Firm makes significantefforts to help borrowers stay in their homes. Since the first quarter of 2009, the Firm hasprevented two foreclosures (through loan modification, short sales, and other foreclosureprevention means) for every foreclosure completed.The Firm has a well-defined foreclosure prevention process when a borrower fails to pay on his orher loan. Customer contacts are attempted multiple times in various ways to pursue options otherthan foreclosure (including through loan modification, short sales, and other foreclosureprevention means). In addition, if the Firm is unable to contact a customer, various reviews arecompleted of borrower's facts and circumstances before a foreclosure sale is completed. By the timeof a foreclosure sale, borrowers have not made a payment on average for approximately 14&nbsp;months.Foreclosure process issuesThe foreclosure process is governed by laws and regulations established on a state-by-state basis.In some states, the foreclosure process involves a judicial process requiring filing documents witha court. In other states, the process is mostly non-judicial, involving various processes, some ofwhich require filing documents with governmental agencies. During thethird quarter of 2010, the Firmbecame aware that certain documents executed by Firm personnel in connection with the foreclosureprocess may not have complied with all applicable procedural requirements. For example, in certaininstances, the underlying loan file review and verification of information for inclusion in anaffidavit was performed by Firm personnel other than the affiant, or the affidavit may not havebeen properly notarized. The Firm instructed its outside foreclosure counsel to temporarily suspendforeclosures, foreclosure sales and evictions in 43 states so that it could review its processes.These matters are the subject of investigation by federal and state officials. For furtherdiscussion, see &#147;Mortgage Foreclosure Investigations andLitigation&#148; in Note 32 on pages 282&#150;289of this Annual Report. &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAs a result of these foreclosure process issues, the Firm has undertaken remedial actions to ensurethat it satisfies all procedural requirements relating to mortgage foreclosures. These actionsinclude:As of January&nbsp;2011, the Firm has resumed initiation of newforeclosure proceedings in nearly all states in which it had previously suspended such proceedings.Thefollowing table presents information as of December 31, 2010 and2009, about the Firm's nonperforming consumer assets, excludingcredit card.Nonaccrual loans: Total consumer nonaccrual loans, excluding credit card, were $8.8billion, compared with $10.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Nonaccrual loans have stabilized, butremained at elevated levels. The increase in loan modification activities is expected to continueto result in elevated levels of nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolios as aresult of both redefault of modified loans as well as the Firm's policy that modified loans remainin nonaccrual status until repayment is reasonably assured and the borrower has made a minimum ofsix payments under the new terms. Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio totaled$7.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, of which 71% were greater than 150&nbsp;days past due; this comparedwith nonaccrual residential real estate loans of $9.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, of which 64%were greater than 150&nbsp;days past due. Modified residential real estate loans of $1.3&nbsp;billion and$920&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were classified as nonaccrual loans. Ofthese modified residential real estate loans, $580&nbsp;million and $256&nbsp;million had yet to make sixpayments under their modified terms at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, with the remainingnonaccrual modified loans having redefaulted. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance ofresidential real estate loans greater than 150&nbsp;days past due was charged down by approximately 46%and 36% to estimated collateral value at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.Real estate owned (&#147;REO&#148;): As part of the residential real estate foreclosure process, loans arewritten down to the fair value of the underlying real estate asset, less costs to sell, atacquisition. Typically, any further gains or losses on REO assets are recorded as part of otherincome. In those instances where the Firm gains ownership and possession of individual propertiesat the completion of the foreclosure process, these REO assets are managed for prompt sale anddisposition at the best possible economic value. Operating expense, such asreal estate taxes and maintenance, are charged to other expense. REO assets, excluding thoseinsured by U.S. government agencies, increased by $138&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2009 to $1.3billion, primarily related to foreclosures of non-PCI loans. It is anticipated that REO assets willcontinue to increase over the next several quarters, as loans moving through the foreclosureprocess are expected to increase.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit CardCredit card receivables (which include receivables in Firm-sponsored credit cardsecuritization trusts that were not reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to January&nbsp;1,2010) were $137.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, a decrease of $25.7&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2009,due to the decline in lower-yielding promotional balances and runoff of the Washington Mutualportfolio.The 30-day delinquency rate decreased to 4.07% at December&nbsp;31, 2010, from 6.28% at December&nbsp;31,2009, while the net charge-off rate increased to 9.73% for 2010, from 9.33% in 2009 due primarilyto the decline in outstanding loans. The delinquency trend is showing improvement, especiallywithin early stage delinquencies. Charge-offs were elevated in 2010 but showed improvement in thesecond half of the year as a result of lower delinquent loans and higher repayment rates. Thecredit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio thathas good U.S. geographic diversification. The greatest geographic concentration of credit cardloans is in California which represented 13% of total loans at December&nbsp;2010, compared with 14% atDecember&nbsp;2009. Loan concentration for the top five states of California, New York, Texas, Floridaand Illinois consisted of $55.1&nbsp;billion in receivables, or 40% of theportfolio, at December&nbsp;2010,compared with $65.9&nbsp;billion, or 40%, at December&nbsp;2009.Credit card receivables, excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio, were $123.9&nbsp;billion at December31, 2010, compared with $143.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The 30-day delinquency rate, excludingthe Washington Mutual portfolio, was 3.66% at December&nbsp;31, 2010, down from 5.52% at December&nbsp;31,2009, while the net charge-off rate increased to 8.72% in 2010 from 8.45% in 2009 due largely tothe decrease in outstanding loans.Credit card receivables in the Washington Mutual portfolio were $13.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010,compared with $19.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The Washington Mutual portfolio's 30-daydelinquency rate was 7.74% at December&nbsp;31, 2010, down from 12.72% at December&nbsp;31, 2009; the 2009delinquency rate excludes the impact of the consolidation of the Washington Mutual Master Trust(&#147;WMMT&#148;) in the second quarter of 2009. The net charge-off rate in 2010 was 18.73%, compared with18.79% in 2009, excluding the impact of the purchase accounting adjustments related to theconsolidation of the WMMT in the second quarter of 2009.Modifications of credit card loansFor additional information about credit card loan modification activities, including credit cardloan modifications accounted for as troubled debt restructurings, see Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 ofthis Annual Report.JPMorgan Chase may offer one of a number of loan modification programs to borrowers who areexperiencing financial difficulty. The Firm has short-term programs for borrowers who may be inneed of temporary relief, and long-term programs for borrowers who are experiencing a morefundamental level of financial difficulties. Most of the Firm's modified credit cardloans havebeen modified under the Firm's long-term programs. Modifications under the Firm's long-termprograms involve placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60&nbsp;months.Modifications under all of these programs typically include reducing the interest rate on the card.Also, in all cases, the Firm cancels the customer's available line of credit on the credit card.Substantially all of these modifications, both short-term and long-term, are considered to be TDRs.Based on the Firm's historical experience, the Firm expects that a significant portion of theborrowers will not ultimately comply with the modified payment terms.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisIf the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment terms, then the credit card loanagreement generally reverts back to its pre-modification payment rate terms. Assuming that thoseborrowers do not begin to perform in accordance with those payment terms, the loans continue to ageand will ultimately be charged off in accordance with the Firm's standard charge-off policy. Inaddition, if a borrower successfully completes a short-term modification program, then the loanreverts back to its pre-modification payment terms. However, in most cases the Firm does notreinstate the borrower's line of credit.At December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm had $10.0&nbsp;billion and $6.2&nbsp;billion, respectively, ofon&#150;balance sheet credit card loans outstanding that have been modified in troubled debtrestructurings. These balances include both credit card loans with modified payment terms andcredit card loans that have reverted back to their pre-modification payment terms. The increase inmodified credit card loans outstanding from December&nbsp;31, 2009, to December&nbsp;31, 2010, is primarilyattributable to previously-modified loans held in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trustsbeing consolidated as a result of adopting the new accounting guidance regarding consolidation ofVIEs.Consistent with the Firm's policy, all credit card loans typically remain on accrual status.However, the Firm separately establishes an allowance for the estimated uncollectible portion ofbilled and accrued interest and fee income on credit card loans.COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT EXPOSURE&nbsp;The Community Reinvestment Act (&#147;CRA&#148;) encourages banks to meet the credit needs ofborrowers in all segments of their communities, including neighborhoods with low or moderateincomes. JPMorgan Chase is a national leader in community development by providing loans,investments and community development services in communities across the United States.At December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, the Firm's CRA loan portfolio was approximately $16 billion and $18 billion, respectively. Of the CRA portfolio 65% were residential mortgage loans and 15% werebusiness banking loans at both December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, respectively; 9% and 8%, respectively,were commercial real estate loans; and 11% and 12%, respectively, were other loans. The CRAnonaccrual loans were 6% of the Firm's nonaccrual loans at both December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009. Netcharge-offs in the CRA portfolio were 3% of the Firm's net charge-offs in both 2010 and 2009. &nbsp; Table of ContentsALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated), andconsumer (primarily scored) portfolios. The allowance represents management's estimate of probablecredit losses inherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance forwholesale and consumer (excluding credit card) lending-related commitments using a methodologysimilar to that used for the wholesale loans. During 2010, the Firm did not make any significantchanges to the methodologies or policies used to establish its allowance for credit losses.For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses, see CriticalAccounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 149&#150;154 and Note15 on pages 239&#150;243 of thisAnnual Report.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, theChief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm and discussed with the Risk Policy and AuditCommittees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, JPMorgan Chase deemedthe allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb losses inherent inthe portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).The allowance for credit losses was $33.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010, an increase of $442&nbsp;millionfrom $32.5&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the Firm's adoption ofaccounting guidance related to VIEs. As a result of the consolidation of certain securitizationentities, the Firm established an allowance for loan losses of $7.5&nbsp;billion at January&nbsp;1, 2010,primarily related to the receivables that had been held in credit card securitization trusts.Excluding the $7.5&nbsp;billion transition adjustment at adoption, the allowance decreased by $6.8&nbsp;billion in theconsumer and wholesale portfolios, generally reflecting an improvement in credit quality.The consumer (excludingcredit card) allowance for loan losses increased $1.6&nbsp;billion largely due to a $3.4&nbsp;billionincrease related to further estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual PCI pools, partiallyoffset by a $1.8&nbsp;billion reduction predominantly in non-credit-impaired residential real estatereserves reflecting improved loss outlook as a result of the resumption of favorable delinquencytrends at the end of 2010, as well as a $632&nbsp;million adjustment related to the estimated netrealizable value of the collateral underlying delinquent residential home loans. For additionalinformation, refer to page 131 of this Annual Report.The credit card allowance for loan losses increased $1.4&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2009, largelydue to the impact of the adoption of the accounting guidance related to VIEs. Excluding the effectof the transition adjustment at adoption, the credit card allowance decreased by $6.0&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2009,reflecting lower estimated losses primarily related to improved delinquency trends as well as lowerlevels of outstandings.The wholesale allowance for loan losses decreased by $2.4&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2009, primarilydue to repayments and loan sales, as well as continued improvement in the credit quality of thecommercial and industrial loan portfolio.The allowance for lending-related commitments for both wholesale and consumer (excluding creditcard), which is reported in other liabilities, was $717&nbsp;million and $939&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31,2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease primarily reflected the continued improvement in thecredit quality of the wholesale commercial and industrial loan portfolio.The credit ratios in the table below are based on retained loan balances, which exclude loansheld-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSummary of changes in the allowance for credit losses&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents a credit ratio excluding: home lending PCI loans acquired in theWashington Mutual transaction; and credit card loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trustwhich were consolidated onto the Firm's balance sheet at fair value during the second quarter of2009. The PCI loans were accounted for at fair value on the acquisition date, which incorporatedmanagement's estimate, as of that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio.Accordingly, no allowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of the acquisition date.Subsequent evaluations ofestimated credit deterioration in this portfolio resulted in therecording of an allowance for loan losses of $4.9&nbsp;billion and $1.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2010 and2009, respectively. For more information on home lending PCI loans,see pages 132&#150;134 of thisAnnual Report. For more information on the consolidation of assets from the Washington MutualMaster Trust, see Note 16 on pages 244&#150;259 of this Annual Report.The calculation of the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding PCI loans andloans held by the WMMT, is presented below.Provision for credit lossesThe provision for credit losses was$16.6&nbsp;billion for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2010, down by$21.8&nbsp;billion, or 57%, from the prior-year provision. The total consumer provision (excludingcredit card) for credit losses was $9.5&nbsp;billion, reflecting an addition to the allowance for loanlosses of $1.6&nbsp;billion (primarily related to the increase in allowance for the PCI portfolio of$3.4&nbsp;billion), partially offset by a $1.8&nbsp;billion reduction in allowance predominantly fornon-credit-impaired residential real estate loans. The prior year provision was $16.0&nbsp;billionreflecting additions of $5.8&nbsp;billion predominantly for the home equity and mortgage portfolios,including $1.6&nbsp;billion for the PCI portfolio.The total credit card provision for credit losses was$8.0&nbsp;billion, primarily reflecting a reduction in the allowance for credit losses of $6.0&nbsp;billionas a result of improved delinquency trends and reduced net charge-offs. The prior year managedprovision was $18.5&nbsp;billion reflecting additions to the allowance of $2.4&nbsp;billion. The wholesaleprovision for credit losses was a benefit of $850&nbsp;million, compared with expense of $4.0&nbsp;billion,reflecting a reduction in the allowance for credit losses predominantly as a result of continuedimprovement in the credit quality of the commercial and industrial portfolio, reduced netcharge-offs and repayments.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisMARKET RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of portfolios andfinancial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.Market risk managementMarket Risk is an independent risk management function that works in close partnership with thebusiness segments to identify and monitor market risks throughout the Firm and to define marketrisk policies and procedures. The risk management function is headed by the Firm's Chief RiskOfficer.Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operatingperformance and provide transparency into the Firm's market risk profile for senior management, theBoard of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the following functions:Risk identification and classificationEach line of business is responsible for the comprehensive identification and verification ofmarket risks within its units. The Firm's market risks arise primarily from the activities in IB,Mortgage Banking, and CIO in Corporate/Private Equity.IB makes markets and trades its products across the fixed income, foreign exchange, equities andcommodities markets. This trading activity may lead to a potential decline in net income due toadverse changes in market rates. In addition to these trading risks, there are risks in IB's creditportfolio from retained loans and commitments, derivative credit valuation adjustments, hedges ofthe credit valuation adjustments and mark-to-market hedges of the retained loan portfolio.Additional risk positions result from the debit valuation adjustments taken on certain structuredliabilities and derivatives to reflect the credit quality of the Firm.The Firm's Mortgage Banking business includes the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans,MSRs and all related hedges. These activities give rise to complex interest rate risks, as well asoption and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded in mortgagesand changes in the probability of newlyoriginated mortgage commitments actually closing. Basisrisk results from differences in the relative movements of the rate indices underlying mortgageexposure and other interest rates.CIO is primarily concerned with managing structural risks which arise out of the various businessactivities of the Firm. Market Risk measures and monitors the gross structural exposures as well asthe net exposures related to these activities.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses variousmetrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the potential loss fromadverse market moves. Each business day, as part of its risk management activities, the Firmundertakes a comprehensive VaR calculation that includes the majority of its material market risks.VaR provides a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of diversification andis used for comparing risks across businesses and monitoring limits. These VaR results are reportedto senior management and regulators, and they feed regulatory capital calculations.The Firm calculates VaR to estimate possible economic outcomes for current positions usinghistorical data from the previous twelve months. This approach assumes that historicalchanges in market values are representative of current risk; this assumption may not alwaysbe valid. VaR is calculated using a one-day time horizon and an expected tail-lossmethodology, which approximates a 95% confidence level. This means the Firm would expect toincur losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates five times in every 100 tradingdays, or about 12 to 13 times a year.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe table below shows the results of the Firm's VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.95% Confidence-Level VaRTotal IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaRVaR measurementIB trading and credit portfolio VaR includes substantially all trading activities in IB, includingthe credit spread sensitivities of certain mortgage products and syndicated lending facilities thatthe Firm intends to distribute. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these products sincedaily time series are largely not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based timeseries for these products, if available, would affect the VaR results presented. In addition, forcertain products included in IB trading and credit portfolio VaR, particular risk parameters arenot fully captured &#150; for example, correlation risk.Total other VaR includes certain positions employed as part of the Firm's risk management functionwithin CIO and in the Mortgage Banking business. CIO VaR includes positions, primarily in debtsecurities and credit products, used to manage structural and other risks including interest rate,credit and mortgage risks arising from the Firm's ongoingbusiness activities. The Mortgage Banking VaR includes the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouseloans, MSRs and all related hedges.In the Firm's view, including IB trading and credit portfolio VaR within total other VaR produces amore complete and transparent perspective of the Firm's market risk profile.IB and other VaR does not include the retained credit portfolio, which is not marked to market;however, it does include hedges of thosepositions. It also does not include debit valuationadjustments (&#147;DVA&#148;) taken on derivative and structured liabilities to reflect the credit quality ofthe Firm, principal investments (mezzanine financing, tax-oriented investments, etc.), and certainsecurities and investments held by the Corporate/Private Equity line of business, including privateequity investments, capital management positions and longer-term investments managed by CIO. Theselonger-term positions are managed through the Firm's earnings at risk and other cash flowmonitoring processes, rather than by using a VaR measure. Principal investing activities andPrivate Equity positions are managed using stress and scenario analyses. See the DVA Sensitivitytable on page 144 of this Annual Report for further details. For a discussion of Corporate/PrivateEquity, see pages 89&#150;90 of this Annual Report.2010 and 2009 VaR resultsAs presented in the table, average total IB and other VaR totaled $99&nbsp;million for 2010, comparedwith $206&nbsp;million for 2009. The decrease in average VaR in 2010 was driven by a decline in marketvolatility in early 2009, as well as a reduction in exposures, primarily in CIO and IB. Averagetotal IB trading and credit portfolio VaR for 2010 was $87&nbsp;million, compared with $164&nbsp;million for2009. The decrease in IB trading and credit portfolio VaR for 2010 was also driven by the declinein market volatility, as well as a reduction in exposure, primarily in the fixed income riskcomponent. CIO VaR averaged $61&nbsp;million for 2010, compared with $103&nbsp;million for 2009. MortgageBanking VaR averaged $23&nbsp;million for 2010,&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysiscompared with $57&nbsp;million for 2009. Decreases in CIO andMortgage Banking VaR for 2010 were again driven by the decline in market volatility and positionchanges. The decline in Mortgage Banking VaR at December&nbsp;31, 2010, reflects management's decisionto reduce risk given market volatility at the time.The Firm's average IB and other VaR diversification benefit was $59&nbsp;million or 37% of the sum for2010, compared with $82&nbsp;million or 28% of the sum for 2009. The Firm experienced an increase in thediversification benefit in 2010 as positions changed and correlations decreased. In general, overthe course of the year, VaR exposure can vary significantly as positions change, market volatilityfluctuates and diversification benefits change.VaR back-testingThe Firm conducts daily back-testing of VaR against its market risk-related revenue, which isdefined as the change in value of: principal transactions revenue for IB and CIO (less PrivateEquity gains/losses and revenue from longer-term CIO investments); trading-related net interestincome for IB, CIO and Mortgage Banking; IB brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or otherrevenue; revenue from syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; andmortgage fees and related income for the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs, andall related hedges. Daily firmwide market risk&#150;related revenue excludes gains and losses from DVA.The following histogram illustrates the daily market risk&#150;related gains and losses for IB,CIO and Mortgage Banking positions for 2010. The chart shows that the Firm posted marketrisk&#150;related gains on 248 out of 261&nbsp;days in this period, with 12&nbsp;days exceeding $210&nbsp;million. Theinset graph looks at those days on which the Firm experienced losses and depicts the amount bywhich the 95% confidence-level VaR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. During 2010,losses were sustained on 13&nbsp;days, none of which exceeded the VaR measure.The following table provides information about the gross sensitivity of DVA to aone-basis-point increase in JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads. This sensitivity represents the impactfrom a one-basis-point parallel shift in JPMorgan Chase's entire credit curve. As credit curves donot typically move in a parallel fashion, the sensitivity multiplied by the change in spreads at asingle maturity point may not be representative of the actual revenue recognized.Debit valuation adjustment sensitivity&nbsp; Table of ContentsEconomic value stress testingWhile VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historicalmarket behavior as an indicator of losses, stress testing captures the Firm's exposure to unlikelybut plausible events in abnormal markets using multiple scenarios that assume significant changesin credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates or commodity prices. Scenariosare updated dynamically and may be redefined on an ongoing basis to reflect current marketconditions. Along with VaR, stress testing is important in measuring and controlling risk; itenhances understanding of the Firm's risk profile and loss potential, as stress losses aremonitored against limits. Stress testing is also employed in cross-business risk management.Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on current market risk positions are reported tothe Firm's senior management and to the lines of business to allow them to better understand eventrisk&#151;sensitive positions and manage risks with more transparency.Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures as well as stress testing include sensitivities to variables usedto value positions, such as credit spread sensitivities, interest rate basis point values andmarket values. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. Theyare aggregated by line-of-business and by risk type, and are used for tactical control andmonitoring limits.Loss advisories and revenue drawdownsLoss advisories and net revenue drawdowns are tools used to highlight trading losses abovecertain levels of risk tolerance. Net revenue drawdown is defined as the decline in net revenuesince the year-to-date peak revenue level.Risk identification for large exposuresIndividuals who manage risk positions in IB are responsible for identifying potential lossesthat could arise from specific, unusual events, such as a potential change in tax legislation, or aparticular combination of unusual market moves. This information is aggregated centrally for IB.Trading businesses are responsible for RIFLEs, thereby permitting the Firm to monitor furtherearnings vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk measures.Earnings-at-risk stress testingThe VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of theFirm's Consolidated Balance Sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rateexposure on reported net income is also important. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's corenontrading business activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions, including accrual loanswithin IB and CIO) results from on&#151; and off&#151;balance sheet positions. ALCO establishes the Firm'sinterest rate risk policies, sets risk guidelines and limits and reviews the risk profile of theFirm. Treasury, working in partnership with the lines of business, calculates the Firm's interestrate risk profile weekly and reports to senior management.Interest rate risk for nontrading activities can occur due to a variety of factors, including:The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated,corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through atransfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that canbe risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances andcontractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepaymentexperience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and anyinterest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions aredynamically reviewed.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in net interest income from its nontrading activitiesunder a variety of interest rate scenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change inthe Firm's net interest income, and the corresponding impact to the Firm's pretax earnings, overthe following 12&nbsp;months. These tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such asthe rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionalityand changes in product mix. The tests include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset salesand securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior. Mortgage prepaymentassumptions are based on current interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, thetime since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historicalexperience and forward market expectations. The balance and pricing assumptions of deposits thathave no stated maturity are based on historical performance, the competitive environment, customerbehavior, and product mix.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisImmediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number of alternativescenarios are also reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rateshifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are intended toprovide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings at risk over a wide range of outcomes.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profiles as of December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009,were as follows.The change in earnings at risk from December&nbsp;31, 2009, resulted from investment portfoliorepositioning, assumed higher levels of deposit balances and reduced levels of fixed-rate loans.The Firm's risk to rising rates was largely the result of widening deposit margins, which arecurrently compressed due to very low short-term interest rates.Additionally, another interest rate scenario conducted by the Firm &#150; involving a steeper yieldcurve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at currentlevels &#150; results in a 12-month pretax earnings benefit of $770&nbsp;million. The increase in earningsunder this scenario is due to reinvestment of maturing assets at the higherlong-term rates, withfunding costs remaining unchanged.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's riskappetite in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, theFirm takes into consideration factors such as senior management risk appetite, market volatility,product liquidity, accommodation of client business and management experience.Market risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits. Senior management, including theFirm's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approvingcertain risk limits on an ongoing basis.The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits include VaR and stresslimits. Similarly, line-of-business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented byloss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Businesses areresponsible for adhering to established limits, against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches are reported in a timely manner to senior management, and the affectedline-of-business is required to reduce trading positions or consult with senior management on theappropriate action.Model reviewSome of the Firm's financial instruments cannot be valued based on quoted market prices butare instead valued using pricing models. These pricing models and VaR models are used formanagement of risk positions, such as reporting against limits, as well as for valuation. The ModelRisk Group, which is independent of the businesses and market risk management, reviews the modelsthe Firm uses and assesses model appropriateness and consistency. The model reviews consider anumber of factors about the model's suitability for valuation and risk management of a particularproduct. These factors include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of thetransaction and its significant risks, the suitability and convergence properties of numericalalgorithms, reliability of data sources, consistency of the treatment with models for similarproducts, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be priced from themarket.Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, as well as previously accepted models, to assesswhether there have been any changes in the product or market that may affect the model's validityand whether there are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment of themodel's adequacy. For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting EstimatesUsed by the Firm on pages 149&#150;154 of this Annual Report.Risk reportingNonstatistical risk measures,VaR, loss advisories and limit excesses are reported daily to thelines of business and to seniormanagement. Market risk exposure trends, VaR trends, profit-and-loss changes and portfolioconcentrations are reported weekly. Stress-test results are also reported weekly to the lines ofbusiness and to senior management.&nbsp; Table of ContentsPRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The Firm makes principal investments in private equity. The illiquid nature and long-term holdingperiods associated with these investments differentiates private equity risk from the risk ofpositions held in the trading portfolios. The Firm's approach to managing private equity risk isconsistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. Controls are in place establishingexpected levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of theportfolios. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place and intended to ensurediversification of the portfolios. All investments are approved by investment committees thatincludeexecutives who are not part of the investing businesses. An independent valuation functionis responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying values of private equityinvestments in accordance with relevant accounting policies. At December&nbsp;31, 2010 and 2009, thecarrying value of the Private Equity portfolio was $8.7&nbsp;billion and $7.3&nbsp;billion, respectively, ofwhich $875&nbsp;million and $762&nbsp;million, respectively, represented publicly-traded positions. Forfurther information on the Private Equity portfolio, see page 90 of this Annual Report.OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes orsystems, human factors or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm's businesses and support activities. Operationalrisk can manifest itself in various ways, including errors, fraudulent acts, businessinterruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, or vendors that do not perform in accordancewith their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses and other damage to theFirm, including reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system of comprehensive policies anda control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. Thegoal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength,the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational risk with risk measures, toolsand disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.One of the ways operational risk is mitigated is through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firmpurchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and regulations, as well as to serve otherneeds of the Firm. Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm doesbusiness. The insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.The Firm's operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix, an internally designed operationalrisk software tool. Phoenix integrates the individual components of the operational risk managementframework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix enhances the capture, reporting and analysis ofoperational risk data by enabling risk identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting andanalysis to be done in an integrated manner, thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm's monitoringand management of its operational risk.For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizesoperational risk events as follows:Risk identificationRisk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that management believes maygive rise to operational losses. All businesses utilize the Firm's standard self-assessment processand supporting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool. The goal of the self-assessmentprocess is for each business to identify the key operational risks specific to its environment andassess the degree to which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed forcontrol issues that are identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolvingthese issues on a timely basis.Risk measurementOperational risk is measured for each business on the basis of historical loss experience using astatistically based loss-distribution approach. The current business environment, potential stressscenarios and measures of the control environment are then factored into the statistical measure indetermining firmwide operational risk capital. This methodology is designed to comply with theadvanced measurement rules under the Basel II Framework.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, permitting analysis of errorsand losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed both at a line-of-business level and byrisk-event type, enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data can be supplemented with external data forcomparative analysis with industry patterns. The data reported enables the Firm to back-testagainst self-assessment results. The Firm is a founding member of the Operational Riskdata eXchangeAssociation, a not-for-profit industry association formed for the purpose of collecting operationalloss data, sharing data in an anonymous form and benchmarking resultsback to mem-&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisbers. Suchinformation supplements the Firm's ongoing operational risk measurement and analysis.Risk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information, including informationabout actual operational loss levels and self-assessment results, to the lines of business andsenior management. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operationalrisk at appropriate levels within each line ofbusiness, to escalate issues and to provideconsistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and support areas.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independent assessmentof the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatory complianceand reporting. This includes reviewing the operational risk framework, the effectiveness of thebusiness self-assessment process, and the loss data-collection and reporting activities.REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The Firm's success depends not only on its prudent management of the liquidity, credit,market and operational risks that are part of its business risk, but equally on the maintenanceamong its many constituents&#150;customers and clients, investors, regulators, as well as the generalpublic&#150;of a reputation for business practices of the highest quality. Attention to reputation hasalways been a key aspect of the Firm's practices, and maintenance of the Firm's reputation is theresponsibility of each individual employee at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individualresponsibility in many ways, including through the Firm's Code of Conduct, which is based on theFirm's fundamental belief that no one should ever sacrifice integrity&nbsp;&#150;&nbsp;or give the impression thathe or she has&nbsp;&#150;&nbsp;even if one thinks it would help the Firm's business. The Code requires promptreporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law orregulation applicable to the Firm's business. It also requires the reporting of any illegalconduct, or conduct that violates the underlying principles of the Code, by any of our customers,suppliers, contract workers, business partners or agents. Concerns may be reported anonymously andthe Firm prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith reporting of any actual orsuspected violations of the Code.In addition to training of employees with regard to the principles and requirements of the Code,and requiring annual affirmation by each employee of compliance with the Code, the Firm hasestablished policies and procedures, and has in place various oversight functions, intended topromote the Firm's culture of &#147;doing the right thing&#148;. These include a Conflicts Office whichexamines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm. Inaddition, each line of business has a risk committee which includes in its mandate oversight of thereputational risks in its business that may produce significant losses orreputational damage. InIB, there is a separate Reputation Risk Office and several regional reputation risk committees,members of which are senior representatives of businesses and control functions, that focus ontransactions that raise reputational issues. Such transactions may include, for example, complexderivatives and structured finance transactions. The Firm also established this year a ConsumerReputational Risk Committee, comprised of senior management from the Firm's Operating Committee,including the heads of its primary consumer facing businesses, RFS and CS, that helps to ensurethat the Firm has a consistent, disciplined focus on the review of the impact on consumers of Chaseproducts and practices, including any that could raise reputational issues.Fiduciary Risk ManagementThe Fiduciary Risk Management function works with relevant line of business risk committees, withthe goal of ensuring that businesses providing investment or risk management products or servicesthat give rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard relative to theirfiduciary relationship with a client. Of particular focus are the policies and practices thataddress a business' responsibilities to a client, including performance and service requirementsand expectations; client suitability determinations; and disclosure obligations and communications.In this way, the relevant line of business risk committees, together with the Fiduciary RiskManagement function, provide oversight of the Firm's efforts to monitor, measure and control theperformance and risks that may arise in the delivery of products or services to clients that giverise to such fiduciary duties, as well as those stemming from any of the Firm's fiduciaryresponsibilities under the Firm's various employee benefit plans.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understandingits reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment toascertain the value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies andcontrol procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as partof such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from periodto period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process forchanging methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates fordetermining the value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a briefdescription of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained wholesale and consumer loanportfolios, as well as the Firm's wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments. The allowancefor loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets to reflect probablecredit losses inherent in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The allowance forlending-related commitments is established to cover probable losses in the lending-relatedcommitments portfolio. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing theFirm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 15 on pages 239&#151;243 of this Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-relatedcommitments involves significant judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identificationof credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves judgment in establishing the inputs used toestimate the allowances. Third, it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomicfactors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio, and to refine loss factors to better reflect theseconditions.The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill itsobligations. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered arethe obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, theamount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, andthe industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an evaluationof historical and current information and involve subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor over another or considering additional factors could affect the risk ratingassigned by the Firm to that loan.The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calculating the allowances.Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical lossexperience in its models for estimating the allowances. Many factors can affect estimates of loss,including volatility of loss given default, probability of default and rating migrations.Consideration is given as to whether the loss estimates should be calculated as an average over theentire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle, as well as to which external datashould be used and when they should be used. Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm'sspecific loan portfolio characteristics could also affect loss estimates. The application ofdifferent inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined appropriateby the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived, taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yetreflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both loss given default and probability ofdefault are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated anddeteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based onmanagement's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio.As noted above, the Firm's wholesale allowance is sensitive to the risk rating assigned to a loan.As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, assuming a one-notch downgrade in the Firm's internal risk ratings for itsentire wholesale portfolio, the allowance for loan losses for the wholesale portfolio wouldincrease by approximately $1.3&nbsp;billion. This sensitivity analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm'sview, the likelihood of a one-notch downgrade for all wholesale loans within a short timeframe isremote. The purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the impact of risk ratings onthe estimate of the allowance for loan losses for wholesale loans. It is not intended to implymanagement's expectation of future deterioration in risk ratings. Given the process the Firmfollows in determining the risk ratings of its loans, management believes the risk ratingscurrently assigned to wholesale loans are appropriate.Consumer loans and lending-related commitmentsThe allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is sensitive tochanges in the economic environment, delinquency status, the realizable value of collateral, FICOscores, borrower behavior and other risk factors, and is intended to represent management's bestestimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The creditperformance of the consumer portfolio across the entire consumer credit product spectrum hasstabilized but high unemployment and weak overall economic conditions continue to result in anelevated level of charge-offs, while weak housing prices continue to negatively affect the severityof losses realized on residential real estate loans that default. Significant judgment is requiredto estimate the duration and severity&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisof the current economic downturn, as well as its potentialimpact on housing prices and the labor market. While the allowance for credit losses is highlysensitive to both home prices and unemployment rates, in the current market it is difficult toestimate how potential changes in one or both of these factors might affect the allowance forcredit losses. For example, while both factors are important determinants of overall allowancelevels, changes in one factor or the other may not occur at the same rate, or changes may bedirectionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in theother. In addition, changes in these factors would not necessarily be consistent across allgeographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes inboth or either of these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity oflosses or both; overall loss rates are a function of both the frequency and severity of individualloan losses.The consumer allowance is calculated by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicatorsto pools of loans with similar risk characteristics to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses inthe portfolio. Management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loanportfolio category, using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate probablelosses inherent in the portfolio. Management uses additional statistical methodsand considersportfolio and collateral valuation trends to review the appropriateness of the primary statisticalloss estimate. The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration modelimprecision, external factors and current economic events that have occurred but are not yetreflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation; this adjustment isaccomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. Inthe current economic environment, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss experience isindicative of future loss levels. Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, takinginto account uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions, qualityof underwriting standards, borrower behavior and other relevant internal and external factorsaffecting the credit quality of the portfolio. For junior lien products, management considers thedelinquency and/or modification status of any senior liens in determining the adjustment. Theapplication of different inputs into the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used bymanagement to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to management judgment, andemphasizing one input or assumption over another, or considering other inputs or assumptions, couldaffect the estimate of the allowance for loan losses for the consumer credit portfolio.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisFair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoriesJPMorgan Chase carries aportion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilitiesare carried at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fairvalue on a nonrecurring basis, including loans accounted for at the lower of cost or fair valuethat are only subject to fair value adjustments under certain circumstances.Under U.S. GAAP there is a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair valuemeasurements. An instrument's categorization within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level ofinput thatis significant to the fair value measurement. Therefore, for instruments classified inlevels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs are principally based on observable market data,there is less judgment applied in arriving at a fair value measurement. For instruments classifiedwithin level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are more significant. The Firm reviews and updates thefair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Changes from one quarter to the nextrelated to the observability of inputs to a fair value measurement may result in a reclassificationbetween hierarchy levels.Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fair value and the portion of suchassets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisValuationThe Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining fair value. Fair value isbased on quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fairvalue is based on internally developed models that primarily use as inputs market-based orindependently sourced market parameters. The Firm's process is intended to ensure that allapplicable inputs are appropriately calibrated to market data, including but not limited to yieldcurves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and creditcurves. In addition to market information, models also incorporate transaction details, such asmaturity. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded atfair value. These adjustments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm'screditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters that are appliedconsistently over time.For instruments classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair valuemay be significant. In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3,management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack ofobservability of significant inputs, management must assess all relevant empirical data in derivingvaluation inputs&nbsp;&#150;&nbsp;including, but not limited to, yield curves, interest rates, volatilities,equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In addition to market information,models also incorporate transaction details, such as maturity. Finally, management judgment must beapplied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty creditquality, the Firm's creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters, whererelevant. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specificcontractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. TheFirm has numerous controls in place to ensure that its valuations are appropriate. An independentmodel review group reviews the Firm's valuation models and approves them for use for specificproducts. All valuation models of the Firm are subject to this review process. A price verificationgroup, independent from the risk-taking functions, ensures observable market prices andmarket-based parameters are used for valuation whenever possible. For those products with materialparameter risk for which observable market levels do not exist, an independent review of theassumptions made on pricing is performed. Additional review includes deconstruction of the modelvaluations for certain structured instruments into their components; benchmarking valuations, wherepossible, to similar products; validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement; anddetailed review and explanation of recorded gains and losses, which are analyzed daily and overtime. Valuation adjustments, which are also determined by the independent price verification group,are based on established policies and applied consistently over time. Any changes to the valuationmethodology are reviewed by management to confirm the changes are justified. As markets andproducts develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more transparent, the Firm continuesto refine its valuation methodologies. During 2010, no changes were made tothe Firm's valuationmodels that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated BalanceSheets or results of operations.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can affect the amount of revenue or lossrecorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods areappropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the use of differentmethodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments couldresult in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion ofthe determination of fair value for individual financial instruments,see Note 3 on pages 170&#150;187of this Annual Report.Purchased credit-impaired loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain loans withevidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination and for which it was probable, atacquisition, that the Firm would be unable to collect all contractually required paymentsreceivable. These loans are considered to be purchased credit-impaired (&#147;PCI&#148;) loans and areaccounted for as described in Note 14 on pages 220&#150;238 of this Annual Report. The application ofthe accounting guidance for PCI loans requires a number of significant estimates and judgment, suchas determining: (i)&nbsp;which loans are within the scope of PCI accounting guidance, (ii)&nbsp;the fairvalue of the PCI loans at acquisition, (iii)&nbsp;how loans are aggregated to apply the guidance onaccounting for pools of loans, and (iv)&nbsp;estimates of cash flows to be collected over the term ofthe loans.Determining which loans are in the scope of PCI accounting guidance is highly subjective andrequires significant judgment. In the Washington Mutual transaction, consumer loans with certainattributes (e.g., higher loan-to-value ratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores, delinquencies)were determined to be credit-impaired, provided that those attributes arose subsequent to theloans' origination dates. A wholesale loan was determined to be credit-impaired if it wasrisk-rated such that it would otherwise have required an asset-specific allowance for loan losses.At the acquisition date, the Firm recorded its PCI loans at fair value, which included an estimateof losses that were then expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the loans.The Firm estimated the fair value of its PCI loans at the acquisition date by discounting the cashflows expected to be collected at a market-observable discount rate, when available, adjusted forfactors that a market participant would consider in determining fair value. The initial estimate ofcash flows to be collected was derived from assumptions such as default rates, loss severities andthe amount and timing of prepayments.The PCI accounting guidance states that investors may aggregate loans into pools that have commonrisk characteristics and thereby use a composite interest rate and estimate of cash flows expectedto be collected for the pools. The pools then become the unit of accounting and are considered oneloan for purposes of accounting for these loans at and subsequent to acquisition. Once a pool isassembled, the integrity of the pool must be&nbsp; Table of Contentsmaintained. The Firm has aggregated substantially allof the PCI loans identified in the Washington Mutual transaction (i.e., the residential real estateloans) into pools with common risk characteristics. Significant judgment is required to determinewhether individual loans have common risk characteristics for purposes of establishing pools ofloans.The Firm's estimate of cash flows expected to be collected must be updated each reporting periodbased on updated assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing ofprepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions.These estimates are dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future home price declines, andthe duration and severity of the current economic downturn, among other factors. These estimatesand assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highlysubjective. These estimates of cash flows expected to be collected may have a significant impact onthe recognition of impairment losses and/or interest income. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, a 1% decreasein expected future principal cash payments for the entire portfolio of purchased credit-impairedloans would result in the recognition of an allowance for loan losses for these loans ofapproximately $670&nbsp;million.Goodwill impairmentUnder U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment at leastannually. The Firm's process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing isdescribed in Note 17 on pages 260&#150;263 of this Annual Report.Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair value of its reporting units.Estimates of fair value are dependent upon estimates of (a)&nbsp;the future earnings potential of theFirm's reporting units, including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, suchas the Dodd-Frank Act, the CARD Act, and limitations on non-sufficient funds and overdraft fees and (b)&nbsp;therelevant cost of equity and long-term growth rates. Imprecision in estimating these factors canaffect the estimated fair value of the reporting units. The fair values of a significant majorityof the Firm's reporting units exceeded their carrying values by substantial amounts (fair value asa percent of carrying value ranged from 120% to 380%) and did not indicate a significant risk ofgoodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations.However, the fair value of the Firm's consumer lending businesses in RFS and CS each exceeded theircarrying values by approximately 25% and 7% respectively and the associated goodwill remains atan elevated risk of impairment due to their exposure to U.S. consumer credit risk and the effects ofregulatory and legislative changes. The assumptions used in the valuation of these businessesinclude (a) estimates of future cash flows (which are dependent on portfolio outstanding balances,net interest margin, operating expense, credit losses, and the amount of capital necessary giventhe risk of business activities to meet regulatory capital requirements), (b) the cost of equityused to discount those cash flows to a present value. Each of these factors requires significantjudgment and the assumptions used are based on management's best and most current projections,including those derived from the Firm's business forecasting process reviewed with senior management. Theseprojections are consistent with the short-term assumptions discussed in Business Outlook on pages57&#151;58 of this Form 10-K and, in the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic assumptions(for example, allowing for relatively high but gradually declining unemployment rates for the nextfew years) and the Firm's best estimates of long-term growth and returns of its businesses. Wherepossible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark its assumptions and estimates. Thecost of equity used in the discounted cash flow model reflected the estimated risk and uncertaintyin these businesses and was evaluated in comparison with relevant market peers.The Firm did not recognize goodwill impairment as of December&nbsp;31, 2010, or at anytime during 2010,based on management's best estimates. However, deterioration in economic market conditions,increased estimates of the effects of recent regulatory or legislative changes, or additionalregulatory or legislative changes may result in declines in projected business performance beyondmanagement's current expectations. For example, in CS such declines could result from deteriorationin economic conditions, such as: increased unemployment claims or bankruptcy filings that result inincreased credit losses, changes in customer behavior that cause decreased account activity orreceivables balances, or unanticipated effects of regulatory or legislative changes. In RFS, suchdeclines could result from deterioration in economic conditions that result in increased creditlosses, including decreases in home prices beyond management's current expectations; or loanrepurchase costs that significantly exceed management's current expectations. Such declines inbusiness performance, or increases in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated fairvalues of the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline, which could result ina material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisIncome taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various jurisdictions in whichit operates, including U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws areoften complex and may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial statementimpact of accounting for income taxes, including the provision for income tax expense andunrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how tointerpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as well asmake judgments regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. taxjurisdictions.JPMorgan Chase's interpretations of tax laws around the world are subject to review and examinationby the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes mayoccur regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the varioustaxing authorities may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication in the courtsystems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviewswhether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of these matters,and the Firm records additional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise itsestimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations and tax planningstrategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm's estimate of income taxes may materiallyaffect the Firm's results of operations in any reporting period.The Firm's provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxesarise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versusincome taxreturn purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, theirrealizability is determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred taxassets in connection with certain net operating losses. The Firm performs regular reviews toascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management's estimatesand assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various tax planningstrategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize net operating losses before theyexpire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined that a deferred tax asset is notrealizable, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in asubsequent reporting period if the Firm determines that, based on revised estimates of futuretaxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not that all or partof the deferred tax asset will become realizable. As of December&nbsp;31, 2010, management hasdetermined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net ofthe existing valuation allowance.The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when additional information becomesavailable. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold aremeasured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured atthe largest amount of benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized uponsettlement. It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits mayhave a material impact on its effective tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs.For additional information on income taxes, see Note 27 on pages 271-273 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS&nbsp;Accounting for transfers of financial assets andconsolidation of variable interest entitiesEffective January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm implemented new accounting guidance that amends the accountingfor the transfers of financial assets and the consolidation of VIEs. Upon adoption of the newguidance, the Firm consolidated its Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts,Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, and certain mortgage and other consumer loansecuritization entities. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (&#147;FASB&#148;) deferred therequirements of the new accounting guidance for VIEs for certain investment funds, including mutualfunds, private equity funds and hedge funds, until the FASB reconsiders the appropriate accountingguidance for these funds. For additional information about the impact of the adoption of the newaccounting guidance on January&nbsp;1, 2010, see Note 16 on pages244&#150;259 of this Annual Report.Fair value measurements and disclosuresIn January&nbsp;2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires new disclosures, and clarifies existingdisclosure requirements, about fair value measurements. The clarifications and the requirement toseparately disclose transfers of instruments between level 1 and level 2 of the fair valuehierarchy are effective for interim reporting periods beginning after December&nbsp;15, 2009; the Firmadopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2010. For additional information about the impact ofthe adoption of the new fair value measurements guidance, see Note 3on pages 170&#150;187 of thisAnnual Report. In addition, a new requirement to provide purchases, sales, issuances andsettlements in the level 3 rollforward on a gross basis is effective for fiscal years beginningafter December&nbsp;15, 2010.Subsequent eventsIn May&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance that established general standards of accounting for anddisclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements areissued or are available to be issued. The guidance was effective for interim or annual financialperiods ending after June&nbsp;15, 2009. In February&nbsp;2010, the FASB amended the guidance by eliminatingthe requirement for SEC filers to disclose the date through which it evaluated subsequent events.The Firm adopted the amended guidance in the first quarter of 2010. The application of the guidancehad no effect on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Accounting for certain embedded credit derivativesIn March&nbsp;2010, the FASB issued guidance clarifying the circumstances in which a credit derivativeembedded in beneficial interests in securitized financial assets is required to be separatelyaccounted for as a derivative instrument. The guidance is effective for the first fiscal quarterbeginning after June&nbsp;15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. Upon adoption, the new guidancepermits the election of the fair value option for beneficial interests in securitized financialassets. The Firm adopted the new guidance prospectively, effective July&nbsp;1, 2010. The adoption ofthe guidance did not have a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results ofoperations. For additional information about the impact of the adoption of the new guidance, seeNote 6 on pages 191&#150;199 of this Annual Report.Accounting for troubled debt restructurings of purchased credit-impaired loans that are part of a poolIn April&nbsp;2010, the FASB issued guidance that amends the accounting for troubled debt restructurings(&#147;TDRs&#148;) of PCI loans accounted for within a pool. The guidance clarifies that modified PCI loansshould not be removed from a pool even if the modification would otherwise be considered a TDR.Additionally, the guidance clarifies that the impact of modifications should be included inevaluating whether a pool of loans is impaired. The guidance was effective for the Firm beginningin the third quarter of 2010, and is to be applied prospectively. The guidance is consistent withthe Firm's previously existing accounting practice and, therefore, had no impact on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables and the allowance for credit lossesIn July&nbsp;2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires enhanced disclosures surrounding the creditcharacteristics of the Firm's loan portfolio. Under the new guidance, the Firm is required todisclose its accounting policies, the methods it uses to determine the components of the allowancefor credit losses, and qualitative and quantitative information about the credit risk inherent inthe loan portfolio, including additional information on certain types of loan modifications. Forthe Firm, the new disclosures became effective for the 2010 AnnualReport. For additional information, see Notes&nbsp;14 and 15 onpages&nbsp;220-243 of this Annual Report. The adoption of thisguidance only affects JPMorgan Chase's disclosures of financing receivables and not itsConsolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations. In January&nbsp;2011, the FASB issued guidancethat deferred the effective date of certain disclosures in this guidance regarding TDRs, pendingresolution on the FASB's project to amend the scope of TDR guidance.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisNONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE&nbsp;In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fairvalue estimation techniques, primarily based on internal models with significant observable marketparameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarilyenergy-related.The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2010.The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivativecontracts at December&nbsp;31, 2010.&nbsp;
