Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisFIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCEThe following table and graph compare the five-year cumulative total return for JPMorgan Chase& Co. (&#147;JPMorgan Chase&#148; or the &#147;Firm&#148;) common stock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500 StockIndex and the S&P Financial Index. The S&P 500 Index is a commonly referenced U.S. equity benchmarkconsisting of leading companies from different economic sectors. The S&P Financial Index is anindex of 78 financial companies, all of which are within the S&P 500. The Firm is a component ofboth industry indices.The following table and graph assume simultaneous investments of $100 on December&nbsp;31, 2004, inJPMorgan Chase common stock and in each of the above S&P indices. The comparison assumes that alldividends are reinvested.&nbsp;This section of the JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009(&#147;Annual Report&#148;) provides management's discussion and analysis (&#147;MD&A&#148;) of the financial conditionand results of operations of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary ofterms on pages 243&#150;245 fordefinitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Reportcontains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private SecuritiesLitigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause the Firm's results to differ materially from those set forth in suchforward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (seeForward-looking statements on page 135 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase AnnualReport on Form 10-K for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 (&#147;2009 Form 10-K&#148;), in Part&nbsp;I, Item&nbsp;1A:Risk factors, to which reference is hereby made.INTRODUCTION&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase& Co., a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading globalfinancial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America(&#147;U.S.&#148;), with $2.0 trillion in assets, $165.4&nbsp;billion in stockholders' equity and operations inmore than 60 countries as of December&nbsp;31, 2009. The Firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing and assetmanagement. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in theU.S. and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association(&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#148;), a national bank with branches in 23 states in the U.S.; and ChaseBank USA, National Association (&#147;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#148;), a national bank that is the Firm'scredit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan SecuritiesInc., theFirm's U.S. investment banking firm.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six businesssegments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise theInvestment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management segments.The Firm's consumer businesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.A description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to theirrespective client bases, follows.Investment BankJ.P. Morgan is one of the world's leading investment banks, with deep client relationships andbroad product capabilities. The clients of the Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) are corporations, financialinstitutions, governments and institutional investors. The Firm offers a full range of investmentbanking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporatestrategy and structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management,market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments, prime brokerage, and research. IB also commits the Firm's own capital to principal investing and trading activities on a limited basis.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;), which includes the Retail Banking and Consumer Lendingbusinesses, serves consumers and businesses through personal service at bank branches and throughATMs, online banking and telephone banking, as well as through auto dealerships and schoolfinancial-aid offices. Customers can use more than 5,100 bank branches (third-largest nationally)and 15,400 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online and mobile banking around the clock.More than 23,900 branch salespeople assist customers with checking and savings accounts, mortgages,home equity and business loans, and investments across the 23-state footprint from New York andFlorida to California. Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 15,700 auto dealershipsand nearly 2,100 schools and universities nationwide.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCard ServicesCard Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is one of the nation's largest credit card issuers, with more than 145&nbsp;millioncredit cards in circulation and over $163&nbsp;billion in managed loans. Customers used Chase cards tomeet more than $328&nbsp;billion of their spending needs in 2009.Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult businessenvironment, launching new products and services such as Blueprint, Ultimate Rewards, ChaseSapphire and Ink from Chase, and earning a market leadership position in building loyalty andrewards programs. Through its merchant acquiring business, Chase Paymentech Solutions, Chase is oneof the leading processors of credit-card payments.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) serves nearly 25,000 clients nationally, including corporations,municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenue generallyranging from$10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion, and more than 30,000 real estateinvestors/owners. Delivering extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedicated service, CB partnerswith the Firm's other businesses to provide comprehensive solutions, including lending, treasuryservices, investment banking and asset management to meet its clients'domestic and international financial needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a global leader in transaction, investment andinformation services. TSS is one of the world's largest cash management providers and a leadingglobal custodian. Treasury Services (&#147;TS&#148;) provides cash management, trade, wholesale card andliquidity products and services to small and mid-sized companies, multinational corporations,financial institutions and government entities. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, RetailFinancial Services and Asset Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certainTS revenue is included in other segments' results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, values,clears and services securities, cash and alternative investments for investors and broker-dealers,and it manages depositary receipt programs globally.Asset ManagementAsset Management (&#147;AM&#148;), with assets under supervision of $1.7 trillion, is a global leader ininvestment and wealth management. AM clients include institutions, retail investors andhigh-net-worth individuals in every major market throughout the world. AM offers global investmentmanagement in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidityproducts, including money-market instruments and bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate,banking and brokerage services to high-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporationsand individuals. The majority of AM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OVERVIEW&nbsp;This executive overview of management's discussion and analysishighlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important toreaders of this Annual Report. For a complete description of events, trends and uncertainties, aswell as the capital, liquidity, credit, operational and market risks and the critical accountingestimates affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be readin its entirety.Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseBusiness overviewJPMorgan Chase reported 2009 net income of $11.7&nbsp;billion, or $2.26 per share, compared with netincome of $5.6&nbsp;billion, or $1.35 per share, in 2008. Total net revenue in 2009 was $100.4&nbsp;billion,compared with $67.3&nbsp;billion in 2008. Return on common equity was 6% in 2009 and 4% in 2008. Resultsbenefited from the impact of the acquisition of the banking operations of Washington Mutual Bank(&#147;Washington Mutual&#148;) on September&nbsp;25, 2008, and the impact of the merger with The Bear StearnsCompanies Inc. (&#147;Bear Stearns&#148;) on May&nbsp;30, 2008.The increase in net income for the year was driven by record net revenue, including record revenuein the Investment Bank reflecting modest net gains on legacy leveraged-lending and mortgage-relatedpositions compared with net markdowns in the prior year. Partially offsetting the growth in theFirm's revenue was an increase in the provision for credit losses, driven by an increase in theconsumer provision, and higher noninterest expense reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction.The business environment in2009 gradually improved throughout the year. The year began with a continuation of the weak conditions experienced in 2008 - the global economy contracted sharply in the first quarter, labor markets deteriorated rapidly and unemployment rose, creditwas tight, liquidity was diminished, and businesses continued to downsize and cutinventory levels rapidly. Throughout the year, the Board ofGovernors of the Federal Reserve System (&#147;Federal Reserve&#148;) took actionsto stabilize the financial markets and promote an economic revival. It held itspolicy rate close to zero and indicated that this policy was likely to remain inplace for some time, given economic conditions. In addition, it greatly expandeda program it launched at the end of 2008, with a plan to buy up to $1.7 trillion of securities, including Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities andobligations of government-sponsored agencies. The U.S. government and variousregulators continued their efforts to stabilize the U.S. economy, putting in placea financial rescue plan that supplemented the interest rate and other actions thathad been taken by the Federal Reserve and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the &#147;U.S. Treasury&#148;) in the second half of 2008. These efforts began to take effect during 2009. Developingeconomies rebounded significantly and contraction in developed economies slowed. Creditconditions improved in the summer, with most credit spreads narrowing dramatically.By the third quarter of the year, many spreads had returned to pre-crisis levels. Bythe fourth quarter, economic activity was expanding and signs emerged that the deterioration in the labor market was abating, although by the end of the year unemployment reached 10%, its highest level since 1983. The housing sector showed some signs of improvement and household spending appeared to be expanding at a moderate rate, though it remained constrained by a weak labor market, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Businesses were continuing to reduce capital investment, though at a slower pace, and remained reluctant to add to payrolls. Financial market conditions in the fourth quarter became more supportive of economic growth.Amidst this difficultoperating environment, JPMorgan Chase benefited from the diversity of its leading franchises, as demonstrated by the continued earnings strength of its InvestmentBank, Commercial Banking, Asset Management, and Retail Banking franchises. Significantmarket share and efficiency gains helped all of the Firm's businesses maintain leadershippositions: the Investment Bank ranked #1 for Global Investment Banking fees for 2009;in Commercial Banking, at year-end 2009, the total revenue related to investmentbanking products sold to CB clients doubled from its level at the time of the JPMorgan Chase-Bank One merger. In addition, the Firm completed the integration of Washington Mutual and continued to invest in its businesses, demonstrated by growth in checking and credit card accounts.Throughout 2009, the Firm remained focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet. In addition tothe capital generated from earnings, the Firm issued $5.8&nbsp;billion of common stock and reduced itsquarterly dividend. The Firm also increased its consumer allowance for credit losses by $7.8billion, bringing the total allowance for credit losses to $32.5&nbsp;billion, or 5.5% of total loans.The Firm recorded a $1.1&nbsp;billion one-time noncash adjustment to common stockholders' equity related&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisto the redemption of the $25.0&nbsp;billion of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasuryunder the Capital Purchase Program. Even with this adjustment, the Firm ended 2009 with a verystrong Tier 1 Capital ratio of 11.1% and a Tier 1 Common ratio of 8.8%.Throughout this turbulent financial period, JPMorgan Chase supported and served its 90&nbsp;millioncustomers and the communities in which it operates; delivered consumer-friendly products andpolicies; and continued to lend. The Firm extended nearly $250&nbsp;billion in new credit to consumersduring the year and for its corporate and municipal clients, either lent or assisted them inraising approximately $1 trillion in loans, stocks or bonds. The Firm also remained committed tohelping homeowners meet the challenges of declining home prices and rising unemployment. Since2007, the Firm has initiated over 900,000 actions to prevent foreclosures through its own programsand through government mortgage-modification programs. During 2009 alone, JPMorgan Chase offeredapproximately 600,000 loan modifications to struggling homeowners. Of these, 89,000 loans haveachieved permanent modification. By March&nbsp;31, 2010, the Firm will have opened 51 ChaseHomeownership Centers across the country and already has over 14,000 employees dedicated tomortgage loss mitigation.Management remains confident that JPMorgan Chase's capital and reserve strength, combined with itssignificant earnings power, will allow the Firm to meet the uncertainties that lie ahead and stillcontinue investing in its businesses and serving its clients and shareholders over the long term.The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each business segment compared with theprior year and presents results on a managed basis unless otherwise noted. For more informationabout managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP FinancialMeasures on pages 50&#150;52 of this Annual Report.Investment Bank reported record net income in 2009 compared with a net loss in2008. The significant rebound in earnings was driven by record net revenue, partially offset byincreases in both noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses. The increase in netrevenue was driven by record Fixed Income Markets revenue, reflecting strong results across mostproducts, as well as modest net gains on legacy leveraged lending and mortgage-related positions,compared with over $10&nbsp;billion of net markdowns in the prior year. Investment banking fees rose torecord levels, as higher equity and debt underwriting fees were partially offset by lower advisoryfees. Record Equity Markets revenue was driven by solid client revenue, particularly in primeservices, and strong trading results. The net revenue results for IB in 2009 included losses fromthe tightening of the Firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities and derivatives,compared with gains in 2008 from the widening of the spread on those liabilities. The provision forcredit losses increased, driven by continued weakness in the credit environment. IB ended the yearwith a ratio of allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained of 8.25%. Noninterestexpense increased, reflecting higher performance-based compensation offset partially by lowerheadcount-related expense.Retail Financial Services net income decreased from the prior year, as an increase in the provisionfor credit losses and higher noninterest expense were predominantly offset by double-digit growthin net revenue. Higher net revenue reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, widerloan and deposit spreads, and higher net mortgage servicing revenue. The provision for creditlosses increased from the prior year as weak economic conditions and housing price declinescontinued to drive higher estimated losses for the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. RFSended the year with a ratio of allowance for loan losses to ending loans, excluding purchasedcredit-impaired loans of 5.09%. Noninterest expense was higher, reflecting the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction and higher servicing and default-related expense.Card Services reported a net loss for the year, compared with net income in 2008. The decline wasdriven by a significantly higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher netrevenue. The double-digit growth in managed net revenue was driven by the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher merchant servicing revenue related to thedissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture; these were partially offset by higherrevenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs, a decreased level of fees and lower averageloan balances. The provision for credit losses increased, reflecting continued weakness in thecredit environment. CS ended the year with a ratio of allowance for loan losses to end-of-periodloans of 12.28%. Noninterest expense increased due to the dissolution of the Chase PaymentechSolutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset bylower marketing expense.Commercial Banking net income decreased from 2008, as an increase in provision for credit losses andhigher noninterest expense were predominantly offset by higher net revenue. Double-digit growth innet revenue reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and record levels of lending-and deposit-related and investment banking fees. Revenue rose in all business segments: MiddleMarket Banking, Commercial Term Lending, Mid-Corporate Banking and Real Estate Banking. Theprovision for credit losses increased, reflecting continued weakness throughout the year in thecredit environment across all business segments, predominantly inreal estate&#150;related segments. CBended the year with a ratio of allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained of 3.12%.Noninterest expense increased due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higherFederal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;) insurance premiums.Treasury & Securities Services net income declined from the prior year, driven bylower net revenue. The decrease in net revenue reflected lower Worldwide Securities Services netrevenue, driven by lower balances and spreads on liability products; lower securities lendingbalances, primarily as a result of declines in asset valuations and demand; and the effect ofmarket depreciation on certain custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue also declined,reflecting lower deposit balances and spreads, offset by higher trade revenue driven by widerspreads and growth across cash management and card product volumes. Noninterest expense roseslightly compared&nbsp; Table of Contentswith the prior year, reflecting higher FDIC insurance premiums offset by lowerheadcount-related expense.Asset Management net income increased from the prior year, due to higher net revenue, offsetlargely by higher noninterest expense and a higher provision for credit losses. The increase in netrevenue reflected higher valuations of the Firm's seed capital investments, net inflows, wider loanspreads and higher deposit balances, offset partially by the effect of lower market levels andnarrower deposit spreads. Asset Management's businesses reported mixed revenue results:Institutional and Private Bank revenue were up while Retail and Private Wealth Management revenuewere down. Assets under supervision increased for the year, due to the effect of higher marketvaluations and inflows in fixed income and equity products offset partially by outflows in cashproducts. The provision for credit losses increased compared with the prior year, reflectingcontinued weakness in the credit environment. Noninterest expense was higher, reflecting the effectof the Bear Stearns merger, higher performance-based compensation and higher FDIC insurancepremiums, offset largely by lower headcount-related expense.Corporate/Private Equity net income increased in 2009, reflecting elevated levels of trading gainsand net interest income, securities gains, an after-tax gain from the sale of MasterCard shares andreduced losses from Private Equity compared with 2008. Trading gains and net interest incomeincreased due to the Firm's significant purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S.government agencies, corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities andother asset-backed securities. These investments were generally associated with the Chief Investment Office's management ofinterest rate risk and investment of cash resulting from the excess funding the Firm continued toexperience during 2009. The increase in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-couponinstruments (part of repositioning the investment portfolio) as well as prepayments and maturities.Firmwide, the managed provision for credit losses was $38.5&nbsp;billion, up by $13.9&nbsp;billion, or 56%,from the prior year. The prior year included a $1.5&nbsp;billion charge to conform Washington Mutual'sallowance for loan losses, which affected both the consumer and wholesale portfolios. For thepurposes of the following analysis, this charge is excluded. The consumer-managed provision forcredit losses was $34.5&nbsp;billion, compared with $20.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year, reflecting anincrease in the allowance for credit losses in the home lending and credit card loan portfolios.Consumer-managed net charge-offs were $26.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $13.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year,resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 5.85% and 3.22%, respectively. The wholesale provisionfor credit losses was $4.0&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.7&nbsp;billion in the prior year, reflectingcontinued weakness in the credit environment throughout 2009. Wholesale net charge-offs were $3.1billion, compared with $402&nbsp;million in the prior year, resulting in net charge-off rates of 1.40%and 0.18%, respectively. The Firm's nonperforming assets totaled $19.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31,2009, up from $12.7&nbsp;billion. The total allowance for credit losses increased by $8.7&nbsp;billion fromthe prior year-end,resulting in a loan loss coverage ratio at December&nbsp;31, 2009, of 5.51%,compared with 3.62% at December&nbsp;31, 2008.Total stockholders' equity at December&nbsp;31, 2009, was $165.4&nbsp;billion.2010 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in suchforward-looking statements.JPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2010 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S.economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environmentand client activity levels. Each of these linked factors will affect the performance of the Firmand its lines of business. The Firm continues to monitor the U.S. and international economies andpolitical environments. The outlook for capital markets remains uncertain, and further declines inU.S. housing prices in certain markets and increases in the unemployment rate, either of whichcould adversely affect the Firm's financial results, are possible. In addition, as a result ofrecent market conditions, the U.S. Congress and regulators have increased their focus on theregulation of financial institutions; any legislation or regulations that may be adopted as aresult could limit or restrict the Firm's operations, and could impose additional costs on the Firmin order to comply with such new laws or rules.Given the potential stress on consumers from rising unemployment and continued downward pressure onhousing prices, management remains cautious with respect to the credit outlook for the consumerloan portfolios. Possible continued weakness in credit trends could result in higher credit costsand require additions to the consumer allowance for credit losses. Based on management's currenteconomic outlook, quarterly net charge-offs could reach $1.4&nbsp;billion for the home equity portfolio,$600&nbsp;million for the prime mortgage portfolio and $500&nbsp;million for the subprime mortgage portfolioover the next several quarters. The managed net charge-off rate for Card Services (excluding theWashington Mutual credit card portfolio) could approach 11% by the first quarter of 2010, includingthe adverse timing effect of a payment holiday program of approximately 60 basis points. Themanaged net charge-off rate for the Washington Mutual credit card portfolio could approach 24% overthe next several quarters. These charge-off rates are likely to move even higher if the economicenvironment deteriorates beyond management's current expectations. Similarly, wholesale creditcosts and net charge-offs could increase in the next several quarters if the credit environmentdeteriorates.The Investment Bank continues to operate in an uncertain environment, and as noted above, resultscould be adversely affected if the credit environment were to deteriorate further. Trading resultscan be volatile and 2009 included elevated client volumes and spread levels. As such, managementexpects Fixed Income and Equity Markets revenue to normalize over time as conditions stabilize.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisIn the Retail Banking segment within Retail Financial Services, although management expectsunderlying growth, results will be under pressure from the credit environment and ongoing lowerconsumer spending levels. In addition, the Firm has made changes, consistentwith (and in certain respects, beyond) the requirements ofnewly-enacted legislation, in its policies relating tonon-sufficient funds and overdraft fees. Although management estimates are, at this point in time,preliminary and subject to change, such changes are expected to result in an annualized reductionin net income of approximately $500&nbsp;million, beginning in the first quarter of 2010.In the Consumer Lending segment within Retail Financial Services, at current production andestimated run-off levels, the Home Lending portfolio of $263&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, isexpected to decline by approximately 10&#150;15% and could possibly average approximately $240&nbsp;billionin 2010 and approximately $200&nbsp;billion in 2011. Based on management's preliminary estimate, whichis subject to change, the effect of such a reduction in the Home Lending portfolio is expected toreduce 2010 net interest income in the portfolio by approximately $1&nbsp;billion from the 2009 level.Additionally, revenue could be negatively affected byelevated levels of repurchases of mortgages previously sold to, forexample, government-sponsored enterprises.Management expects noninterest expense in Retail Financial Services to remain at or above 2009levels, reflecting investments in new branch builds and sales force hires as well as continuedelevated servicing, default and foreclosed asset related costs.Card Services faces rising credit costs in 2010, as well as continued pressure on both chargevolumes and credit card receivables growth, reflecting continued lower levels of consumer spending.In addition, as a result of the recently-enacted credit card legislation, management estimates,which are preliminary and subject to change, are that CS's annual net income may be adverselyaffected by approximately $500&nbsp;million to $750&nbsp;million. Further, management expects average Cardoutstandings to decline by approximately 10-15% in 2010 due tothe run-off of the Washington Mutual portfolio and lower balance transfer levels. As a result of allthese factors, management currently expects CS to report net losses in each of the first two quarters of 2010 (of approximately$1&nbsp;billion in the first quarter and somewhat less than that inthe second quarter) before the effect of any potential reserve actions. Results in the second half of 2010 willlikely be dependent on the economic environment and potential reserve actions.Commercial Banking results could be negatively affected by rising credit costs, a decline in loandemand and reduced liability balances.Earnings in Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management will be affected by the impact ofmarket levels on assets under management, supervision and custody. Additionally, earnings inTreasury & Securities Services could be affected by liability balance flows.Earnings in Private Equity (within the Corporate/Private Equity segment) will likely be volatileand continue to be influenced by capital markets activity, market levels, the performance of thebroader economy and investment-specific issues. Corporate's net interest income levels andsecurities gains will generally trend with the size of the investment portfolio in Corporate;however, the high level of trading gains in Corporate in the second half of 2009 is not likely tocontinue. In the near-term, Corporate quarterly net income (excluding Private Equity,merger-related items and any significant nonrecurring items) is expected to decline toapproximately $300&nbsp;million, subject to the size and duration of the investment securitiesportfolio.Lastly, with regard to any decision by the Firm's Board ofDirectors concerning any increase in the level of the common stockdividend, their determination will be subject to their judgment thatthe likelihood of another severe economic downturn has sufficientlydiminished, that overall business performance has stabilized, and thatsuch action is warranted taking into consideration the Firm's earnings outlook, need tomaintain adequate capital levels, alternative investmentopportunities, and appropriate dividend payout ratios. When in theBoard's judgment, based on the foregoing, the Board believes it appropriate to increase the dividend to an annual payout level in the range of $0.75 to $1.00 per share, the Board would likely move forward with such an increase, and follow at some later time with an additional increase or additional increases sufficient to return to the Firm's historical dividend ratio of approximately 30% to 40% ofnormalized earnings over time.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS&nbsp;This following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase'sConsolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&nbsp;31,2009. Factors that related primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detailwithin that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by theFirm that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages127&#150;131 of this Annual Report.Revenue2009 compared with 2008Total net revenue was $100.4&nbsp;billion, up by $33.2&nbsp;billion, or 49%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by higher principal transactions revenue, primarily related to improvedperformance across most fixed income and equity products, and the absence of net markdowns onlegacy leveraged lending and mortgage positions in IB, as well as higher levels of trading gainsand investment securities income in Corporate/Private Equity. Results also benefited from theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction, which contributed to increases in net interest income,lending- and deposit-related fees, and mortgage fees and related income. Lastly, higher investmentbanking fees also contributed to revenue growth. These increases in revenue were offset partiallyby reduced fees and commissions from the effect of lower market levels on assets under managementand custody, and the absence of proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initial publicoffering in the first quarter of 2008.Investment banking fees increased from the prior year, due to higher equity and debt underwritingfees. For a further discussion of investment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in IB, seeIB segment results on pages 55&#150;57 of this Annual Report.Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue from trading and private equity investingactivities, was significantly higher compared with the prior year. Trading revenue increased,driven byimproved performance across most fixed income and equity products; modest net gains on legacyleveraged lending and mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6&nbsp;billion inthe prior year; and gains on trading positions in Corporate/Private Equity, compared with losses inthe prior year of $1.1&nbsp;billion on markdowns of Federal National Mortgage Association (&#147;Fannie Mae&#148;)and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#147;Freddie Mac&#148;) preferred securities. These increases inrevenue were offset partially by an aggregateloss of $2.3&nbsp;billion from the tightening of theFirm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities and derivatives, compared with gains of $2.0billion in the prior year from widening spreads on these liabilities and derivatives. The Firm'sprivate equity investments produced a slight net loss in 2009, a significant improvement from alarger net loss in 2008. For a further discussion of principal transactions revenue, see IB andCorporate/Private Equity segment results on pages 55&#150;57 and74&#150;75, respectively, and Note 3 onpages 148&#150;165 of this Annual Report.Lending- and deposit-related fees rose from the prior year, predominantly reflecting the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction and organic growth in both lending- and deposit-related fees inRFS, CB, IB and TSS. For a further discussion of lending- and deposit-related fees, which aremostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFS segment results onpages 58&#150;63, the TSS segmentresults on pages 69&#150;70, and the CB segment results on pages67&#150;68 of this Annual Report.The decline in asset management, administration and commissions revenue compared with the prioryear was largely due to lower asset management fees in AM from the effect of lower market levels.Also contributing to the decrease were lower administration fees in TSS, driven by the effect ofmarket depreciation on certain custody assets and lower securities lending balances; and lowerbrokerage commissions revenue in IB, predominantly related to lower transaction volume. Foradditional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions for TSS on pages69&#150;70, and AM on pages 71&#150;73 of this Annual Report.Securities gains were lower in 2009 and included credit losses related to other-than-temporaryimpairment and lower gains on the sale of MasterCard shares of $241&nbsp;million in 2009, compared with$668&nbsp;million in 2008. These decreases were offset partially by higher gains from repositioning theCorporate investment securities portfolio in connection with managing the Firm's structuralinterest rate risk. For a further discussion of securities gains, which are mostly recorded inCorporate/Private Equity, see the Corporate/Private Equity segmentdiscussion on pages 74&#150;75 ofthis Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased slightly from the prior year, as higher net mortgageservicing revenue was largely offset by lower production revenue. The increase in net mortgageservicing revenue was driven by growth in average third-party loans serviced as a result of theWashington Mutual transaction. Mortgage production revenue declined from the prior year, reflectingan increase inestimatedlosses from the repurchase of previously-sold loans, offset partially by widermargins on new originations. For a discussion of mortgage fees and related income, which isrecorded primarily in RFS's Consumer Lending business, see the Consumer Lending discussion on pages60&#150;63 of this Annual Report.Credit card income, which includes the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, decreasedslightly compared with the prior year,&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisdue to lower servicing fees earned in connection with CSsecuritization activities, largely as a result of higher credit losses. The decrease was partiallyoffset by wider loan margins on securitized credit card loans; higher merchant servicing revenuerelated to the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture; and higher interchangeincome. For a further discussion of credit card income, see the CSsegment results on pages 64&#150;66of this Annual Report.Other income decreased from the prior year, due predominantly to the absence of $1.5&nbsp;billion inproceeds from the sale of Visa shares during its initial public offering in the first quarter of2008, and a $1.0&nbsp;billion gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture inthe fourth quarter of 2008; and lower net securitization income in CS. These items were partiallyoffset by a $464&nbsp;million charge recognized in 2008 related to the repurchase of auction-ratesecurities at par; the absence of a $423&nbsp;million loss incurred in the second quarter of 2008,reflecting the Firm's 49.4% share of Bear Stearns' losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008; and highervaluations on certain investments, including seed capital in AM.Net interest income increased from the prior year, driven by the Washington Mutual transaction,which contributed to higher average loans and deposits. The Firm's interest-earning assets were$1.7 trillion, and the net yield on those assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent (&#147;FTE&#148;) basis, was3.12%, an increase of 25 basis points from 2008. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, the increase in net interest income in 2009 was driven by a higher level of investmentsecurities, as well as a wider net interest margin, which reflected the overall decline in marketinterest rates during the year. Declining interest rates had a positive effect on the net interestmargin, as rates paid on the Firm's interest-bearing liabilities decreased faster relative to the decline in rates earned oninterest-earning assets. These increases in net interest income were offset partially by lower loanbalances, which included the effect of lower customer demand, repayments and charge-offs.2008 compared with 2007Total net revenue of $67.3&nbsp;billion was down $4.1&nbsp;billion, or 6%, from the prior year. The declineresulted from the extremely challenging business environment for financial services firms in 2008.Principal transactions revenue decreased significantly and included net markdowns onmortgage-related positions and leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments, losses onpreferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and losses on private equity investments. Alsocontributing to the decline in total net revenue were losses and markdowns recorded in otherincome, including the Firm's share of Bear Stearns' losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008. Thesedeclines were largely offset by higher net interest income, proceeds from the sale of Visa sharesin its initial public offering, and the gain on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech jointventure.Investment banking fees were down from the record level of the prior year due to lower debtunderwriting fees, as well as lower advisory and equity underwriting fees, both of which were atrecord levels in 2007. These declines were attributable to reducedmarket activity. For a furtherdiscussionof investment banking fees, which are primarily recorded in IB, see IB segment resultson pages 55&#150;57 of this Annual Report.In 2008, principal transactions revenue declined by $19.7&nbsp;billion from the prior year. Tradingrevenue decreased by $14.5&nbsp;billion to a negative $9.8&nbsp;billion, compared with positive $4.7&nbsp;billionin 2007. The decline in trading revenue was largely driven by net markdowns of $5.9&nbsp;billion onmortgage-related exposures, compared with $1.4&nbsp;billion in net markdowns in the prior year; netmarkdowns of $4.7&nbsp;billion on leveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments, compared with $1.3billion in net markdowns in the prior year; losses of $1.1&nbsp;billion on preferred securities ofFannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and weaker equity trading results, compared with a record level in2007. In addition, trading revenue was adversely affected by additional losses and costs to reducerisk related to Bear Stearns positions. Partially offsetting the decline in trading revenue wererecord results in rates and currencies, credit trading, commodities and emerging markets, as wellas strong Equity Markets client revenue; and total gains of $2.0&nbsp;billion from the widening of theFirm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities and derivatives, compared with $1.3&nbsp;billionin 2007. Private equity results also declined substantially from the prior year, recording lossesof $908&nbsp;million in 2008, compared with gains of $4.3&nbsp;billion in 2007. In addition, the firstquarter of 2007 included a fair value adjustment related to the adoption of new FASB guidance onfair value measurement. For a further discussion of principal transactions revenue, see IB andCorporate/Private Equity segment results on pages 55&#150;57 and74&#150;75, respectively, and Note 3 onpages 148&#150;165 of this Annual Report.Lending- and deposit-related fees rose from 2007, predominantly resulting from higherdeposit-related fees and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. For a further discussionof Lending- and deposit-related fees, which are mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFSsegment results on pages 58&#150;63, the TSS segment results on pages69&#150;70 and the CB segment resultson pages 67&#150;68 of this Annual Report.The decline in asset management, administration and commissions revenue compared with 2007 wasdriven by lower asset management fees in AM, due to lower performance fees and the effect of lowermarket levels. This decline was partially offset by an increase in commissions revenue, relatedpredominantly to higher brokerage transaction volume within IB's Equity Markets revenue, whichincluded additions from Bear Stearns' Prime Services business; and higher administration fees in TSS, driven by wider spreads in securities lending andincreased product usage by new and existing clients. For additional information on these fees andcommissions, see the segment discussions for IB on pages 55&#150;57,RFS on pages 58&#150;63, TSS on pages69&#150;70 and AM on pages 71&#150;73 of this Annual Report.The increase in securities gains compared with the prior year was due to the repositioning of theCorporate investment securities portfolio, as part of managing the structural interest rate risk ofthe&nbsp; Table of ContentsFirm; and higher gains from the sale of MasterCard shares. For a further discussion ofsecurities gains, which are mostly recorded in the Firm's Corporate/Private Equity business, seethe Corporate/Private Equity segment discussion on pages 74&#150;75 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased from the prior year, driven by higher net mortgageservicing revenue, which benefited from an improvement in mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSR&#148;) riskmanagement results and increased loan servicing revenue. Mortgage production revenue increasedslightly, as growth in originations was predominantly offset by markdowns on the mortgage warehouseand increased losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans. For a discussion ofmortgage fees and related income, which is recorded primarily in RFS's Consumer Lending business,see the Consumer Lending discussion on pages 60&#150;63 of this Annual Report.Credit card income rose compared with the prior year, driven by increased interchange income, dueto higher customer charge volume in CS and higher debit card transaction volume in RFS; the impactof the Washington Mutual transaction; and increased servicing fees resulting from a higher level ofsecuritized receivables. These results were partially offset by increases in volume-driven paymentsto partners and expense related to rewards programs. For a further discussion of credit cardincome, see CS's segment results on pages 64&#150;66 of this Annual Report.Other income increased compared with the prior year, due predominantly to the proceeds from thesale of Visa shares in its initial public offering of $1.5&nbsp;billion, the gain on the dissolution ofthe Chase Paymentech joint venture of $1.0&nbsp;billion, and gains on sales of certain other assets.These proceeds and gains were partially offset by lower valuations on certain investments,including seed capital in AM; a $464&nbsp;million charge related to the offer to repurchase auction-ratesecurities at par; losses of $423&nbsp;million reflecting the Firm's 49.4% ownership in Bear Stearns'losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008; and lower net securitization income in CS.Net interest income increased from the prior year driven, in part, by the Washington Mutualtransaction, which contributed to higher average loans and deposits, and, to a lesser extent, bythe Bear Stearns merger. The Bear Stearns Prime Services business contributed to higher netinterest income, as this business increased average balances in other interest-earning assets(primarily customer receivables) and other interest-bearing liabilities (primarily customerpayables). The Firm's interest-earning assets were $1.4 trillion, and the net yield on thoseassets, on an FTE basis, was 2.87%, an increase of 48 basis points from 2007. Excluding the impactof the Washington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearns merger, the increase in net interestincome in 2008 was driven by a wider net interest margin, which reflected the overall decline inmarket interest rates during the year. The decline in rates had a positive effect on the netinterest margin, as rates paid on the Firm's interest-bearing liabilities decreased faster relativeto the decrease in rates earned on interest-earningassets. Growth in consumer and wholesale loanbalances also contributed to the increase in net interest income.Provision for credit losses2009 compared with 2008The provision for credit losses in 2009 rose by $11.0&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year,predominantly due to a significant increase in the consumer provision. The prior year included a$1.5&nbsp;billion charge to conform Washington Mutual's allowance for loan losses, which affected boththe consumer and wholesale portfolios. For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge isexcluded. The consumer provision reflected additions to the allowance for loan losses for the homeequity, mortgage and credit card portfolios, as weak economic conditions, housing price declinesand higher unemployment rates continued to drive higher estimated losses for these portfolios.Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6&nbsp;billion provision relatedto estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. Thewholesale provision increased from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the creditenvironment in 2009 compared with the prior year. For a more detailed discussion of the loanportfolio and the allowance for loan losses, see the segmentdiscussions for RFS on pages 58&#150;63,CS on pages 64&#150;66, IB on pages 55&#150;57 and CB on pages 67&#150;68, and the Allowance for Credit Lossessection on pages 115&#150;117 of this Annual Report.2008 compared with 2007The provision for credit losses in 2008 rose by $14.1&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year, due toincreases in both the consumer and wholesale provisions. The increase in the consumer provisionreflected higher estimated losses for home equity and mortgages resulting from declining housingprices; an increase in estimated losses for the auto, student and business banking loan portfolios;and an increase in the allowance for loan losses and higher charge-offs of credit card loans. Theincrease in the wholesale provision was driven by a higher allowance resulting from a weakeningcredit environment and growth in retained loans. The wholesale provision in the first quarter of2008 also included the effect of the transfer of $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leveragedlending commitments to retained loans from the held-for-sale portfolio. In addition, in 2008 boththe consumer and wholesale provisions were affected by a $1.5&nbsp;billion charge to conform assetsacquired from Washington Mutual to the Firm's loan loss methodologies. For a more detaileddiscussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for loan losses, see the segment discussions forRFS on pages 58&#150;63, CS on pages 64&#150;66, IB on pages55&#150;57 and CB on pages 67&#150;68, and the CreditRisk Management section on pages 93&#150;117 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisNoninterest expenseThe following table presents the components of noninterestexpense.2009 compared with 2008Total noninterest expense was $52.4&nbsp;billion, up $8.9&nbsp;billion, or 20%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher performance-basedcompensation expense, higher FDIC-related costs and increased mortgage servicing anddefault-related expense. These items were offset partially by lower headcount-related expense,including salary and benefits but excluding performance-based incentives, and other noncompensationcosts related to employees.Compensation expense increased in 2009 compared with the prior year, reflecting higherperformance-based incentives, as well as the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excludingthese two items, compensation expense decreased as a result of a reduction in headcount,particularly in the wholesale businesses and in Corporate.Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year, due predominantly to the following: theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction; higher ongoing FDIC insurance premiums and an FDICspecial assessment of $675&nbsp;million recognized in the second quarter of 2009; higher mortgageservicing and default-related expense, which included an increase in foreclosed property expense of$1.2&nbsp;billion; higher litigation costs; and the effect of the dissolution of the Chase PaymentechSolutions joint venture. The increase was partially offset by lower headcount-related expense,particularly in IB, TSS and AM; a decrease in amortization of intangibles, predominantly related topurchased credit card relationships; lower mortgage reinsurance losses; and a decrease in creditcard marketing expense. For a discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.For information on merger costs, refer to Note 10 on page 186 of this Annual Report.2008 compared with 2007Total noninterest expense for 2008 was $43.5&nbsp;billion, up $1.8&nbsp;billion, or 4%, from the prior year.The increase was driven by the additional operating costs related to the Washington Mutualtransaction and Bear Stearns merger and investments in the businesses, partially offset by lowerperformance-based incentives.Compensation expense increased slightly from the prior year, predominantly driven by investments inthe businesses, including headcount additions associated with the Bear Stearns merger andWashington Mutual transaction, largely offset by lower performance-based incentives.Noncompensation expense increased from the prior year as a result of the Bear Stearns merger andWashington Mutual transaction. Excluding the effect of these transactions, noncompensation expensedecreased due to a net reduction in other expense related to litigation; lower credit card andconsumer lending marketing expense; and a decrease in the amortization of intangibles, as certainpurchased credit card relationships were fully amortized in 2007, and the amortization rate forcore deposit intangibles declined in accordance with the amortization schedule. These decreaseswere offset partially by increases in professional & outside services, driven by investments in newproduct platforms in TSS, and business and volume growth in CS credit card processing and IBbrokerage, clearing and exchange transaction processing. Also contributing to the increases werethe following: an increase in other expense due to higher mortgage reinsurance losses and mortgageservicing expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults in RFS; an increase in technology,communications and equipment expense, reflecting higher depreciation expense on owned automobilessubject to operating leases in RFS, and other technology-related investments across the businesses;and an increase in occupancy expense, partly related to the expansion of RFS's retail distributionnetwork. For a further discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17 on pages214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.For information on merger costs, refer to Note 10 on page 186 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsIncome tax expenseThe following table presents the Firm's income before income tax expense/(benefit) andextraordinary gain, income tax expense/(benefit) and effective tax rate.2009 compared with 2008The change in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year was primarily the result ofhigher reported pretax income and changes in the proportion of income subject to U.S. federal andstate and local taxes. Benefits related to tax-exempt income, business tax credits and tax auditsettlements increased in 2009 relative to 2008; however, the impact of these items on the effectivetax rate was reduced by the significantly higher level of pretax income in 2009. In addition, 2008reflected the realization of benefits of $1.1&nbsp;billion from the release of deferred tax liabilitiesassociated with the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to bereinvested indefinitely. For a further discussion of income taxes, see Critical AccountingEstimates Used by the Firm on pages 127&#150;131 and Note 27 on pages226&#150;228 of this Annual Report.2008 compared with 2007The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2008 compared with the prior year was the result ofsignificantly lower reported pretax income, combined with changes in the proportion of incomesubject to U.S. federal taxes. Also contributing to the decrease in the effective tax rate wasincreased business tax credits and the realization of a $1.1&nbsp;billion benefit from the release ofdeferred tax liabilities. These deferred tax liabilities were associated with the undistributedearnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to be reinvested indefinitely. Thesedecreases were partially offset by changes in state and local taxes, and equity losses representingthe Firm's 49.4% ownership interest in Bear Stearns' losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008, for whichno income tax benefit was recorded.Extraordinary gainOn September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual.This transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting for businesscombinations. The adjusted net asset value of the banking operations after purchase accountingadjustments was higher than the consideration paid by JPMorgan Chase, resulting in an extraordinarygain. The preliminary gain recognized in 2008 was $1.9&nbsp;billion. In the third quarter of 2009, theFirm recognized a $76&nbsp;million increase in the extraordinary gain associated with the final purchaseaccounting adjustments for the acquisition. For a further discussion of the Washington Mutualtransaction, see Note 2 on pages 143&#150;148 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisEXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM'S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES&nbsp;The Firm prepares its consolidated financial statements using accounting principalsgenerally accepted in the United States of America (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appearon pages 138&#150;141 of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as &#147;reportedbasis,&#148; provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be trackedconsistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with othercompanies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm'sresults and the results of the lines of business on a &#147;managed&#148; basis, which is a non-GAAPfinancial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAPresults and includes certain reclassifications that assume credit card loans securitized by CSremain on the balance sheets, and presents revenue on a FTE basis. These adjustments do not haveany impact on net income as reported by the lines of business or by the Firm as a whole.The presentation of CS results on a managed basis assumes that credit card loans that have beensecuritized and sold in accordance with U.S. GAAP remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, andthat the earnings on the securitized loans are classified in the samemanner as the earnings on retained loans recorded on the ConsolidatedBalance Sheets. JPMorganChase uses the concept of managed basis to evaluate the credit performance and overall financialperformance of the entire managed credit card portfolio. Operations are funded and decisions aremade about allocating resources, such as employees and capital, based on managed financialinformation. In addition, the same underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used forboth loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and securitized loans. Although securitizationsresult in the sale of credit card receivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains the ongoingcustomer relationships, as the customers may continue to use their credit cards; accordingly, thecustomer's credit performance will affect both the securitized loans and the loans retained on theConsolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase believes managed basis information is useful toinvestors, enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans reported onthe Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Firm's retained interests in securitized loans. For areconciliation of reported to managed basis results for CS, see CSsegment results on pages 64&#150;66of this Annual Report. For information regarding the securitization process, and loans and residualinterests sold and securitized, see Note 15 on pages 198&#150;205 of this Annual Report.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.(Table continues on next page)&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsOn January&nbsp;1, 2010, the Firm adopted the new consolidation accounting guidance forVIE's. As the Firm will be deemed to be the primary beneficiary of its credit card securitizationtrusts as a result of this guidance, the Firm will consolidate the assets and liabilities of thesecredit card securitization trusts at their carrying values on January&nbsp;1, 2010, and creditcard&#150;related income and credit costs associated with these securitization activities will beprospectively recorded on the 2010 Consolidated Statements of Income in the same classificationsthat are currently used to report such items on a managed basis. For additional information on thenew accounting guidance, see &#147;Accounting and reportingdevelopments&#148; on pages 132&#150;134 of thisAnnual Report.Total net revenue for each of the business segments and the Firm is presented on a FTE basis.Accordingly, investments that receive tax credits and revenue from tax-exempt securities arepresented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. Thisnon-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess(Table continued from previous page)the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources.The corresponding income tax impact related to these items is recorded within income tax expense.Tangible common equity (&#147;TCE&#148;) represents common stockholders' equity (i.e., total stockholders'equity less preferred stock) less identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs) and goodwill,net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE, a non-GAAP financial ratio, measures the Firm'searnings as a percentage of TCE and is, in management's view, another meaningful measure to assessthe Firm's use of equity.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business-segment level, because itbelieves these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about theunderlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and thereforefacilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its competitors.&nbsp;Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both thefollowing U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP measures.Return on common equityNet income* / Average common stockholders' equityReturn on tangible common equity(e)Net income* / Average tangible common equityReturn on assetsReported net income / Total average assetsManaged net income / Total average managed assets(f)(including average securitized credit card receivables)Overhead ratioTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAverage tangible common equityImpact on ROE of redemption of TARP preferred stockissued to the U.S. TreasuryThe calculation of 2009 net income applicable to common equity includes a one-time, noncashreduction of $1.1&nbsp;billion resulting from the repayment of TARP preferred capital. Excluding thisreduction, ROE would have been 7% for 2009. The Firm views adjusted ROE, a non-GAAP financialmeasure, as meaningful because it enables the comparability to prior periods.Impact on diluted earnings per share of redemption of TARP preferred stock issued to the U.S.TreasuryNet income applicable to common equity for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, included a one-time,noncash reduction of approximately $1.1&nbsp;billion resulting from the repayment of TARP preferredcapital. The following table presents the effect on net income applicable to common stockholdersand the $0.27 reduction to diluted earnings per share for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009.Other financial measuresThe Firm also discloses the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding homelending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust. For afurther discussion of this credit metric, see Allowance for CreditLosses on pages 115&#150;117 of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsBUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportablebusiness segments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, CommercialBanking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset Management, as well as a Corporate/Private Equitysegment.The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type ofcustomer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluatedby management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis.(a) BearStearns Private Client Services was renamed to JPMorgan Securities atthe beginning of 2010.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially astand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment resultsallocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. Business segment reportingmethodologies used by the Firm are discussed below. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions,methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinementsmay be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. The segment resultsreflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business andtransfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to the Treasury group within theCorporate/Private Equitybusiness segment. The allocation process is unique to each businesssegment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of that segment's stand-alone peers. This process is overseenby senior management and reviewed by the Firm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;). Businesssegments may retain certain interest rate exposures, subject to management approval, that would beexpected in the normal operation of a similar peer business.Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peercomparisons, economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capitalassigned to each business is referred to as equity. For a further discussion, see Capitalmanagement&#150;Line of business equity on pages 84-85 of this Annual Report.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, the costs of thosesupport units are allocated to the business segments. The expense is allocated based on their&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisactual cost or the lower of actual cost or market, as well as upon usage of the services provided.In contrast, certain other expense related to certain corporate functions, or to certain technologyand operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. Retainedexpense includes: parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alonebusinesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology and operations allocationswith market prices; and other one-time items not aligned with the business segments.Segmentresults &#150; Managed basis(a)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.&nbsp; Table of ContentsINVESTMENT BANK&nbsp;J.P. Morgan is one of the world's leading investment banks, withdeep client relationships and broad product capabilities. The InvestmentBank's clients are corporations, financial institutions, governments andinstitutional investors. The Firm offers a full range of investment bankingproducts and services in all major capital markets, including advising oncorporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management, market-making in cash securities and derivativeinstruments, prime brokerage, research and thought leadership. IB also commits the Firm's own capital to principal investing and tradingactivities on a limited basis.Selected income statement dataThe following table provides IB's total net revenue by business segment.2009 compared with 2008Net income was $6.9&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Theseresults reflected significantly higher total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterestexpense and a higher provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $28.1&nbsp;billion, compared with $12.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Investmentbanking fees were up 21% to $7.2&nbsp;billion, consisting of debt underwriting fees of $2.7&nbsp;billion (up24%), equity underwriting fees of $2.6&nbsp;billion (up 51%), and advisory fees of $1.9&nbsp;billion (down7%). Fixed Income Markets revenue was $17.6&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting improved performance across most products and modest net gains on legacy leveragedlending and mortgage-related positions, compared with net markdowns of $10.6&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. These results also included losses of $1.0&nbsp;billion from the tightening of the Firm's creditspread on certain structured liabilities, compared with gains&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisof $814&nbsp;million in the prior year.Equity Markets revenue was $4.4&nbsp;billion, up 22% from the prior year, driven by strong clientrevenue across products, particularly prime services, and improved trading results. These resultsalso included losses of $536&nbsp;million from the tightening of the Firm's credit spread on certainstructured liabilities, compared with gains of $510&nbsp;million in the prior year. Credit Portfoliorevenue was a loss of $1.0&nbsp;billion versus a gain of $860&nbsp;million in the prior year, driven bymark-to-market losses on hedges of retained loans compared with gains in the prior year, partiallyoffset by the positive net impact of credit spreads on derivative assets and liabilities.The provision for credit losses was $2.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. The allowance for loan losses toend-of-period loans retained was 8.25%, compared with 4.83% in the prior year. Net charge-offs were$1.9&nbsp;billion, compared with $105&nbsp;million in the prior year. Total nonperforming assets were $4.2billion, compared with $2.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $15.4&nbsp;billion, up $1.6&nbsp;billion, or 11%, from the prioryear, driven by higher performance-based compensation expense, partially offset by lowerheadcount-related expense.Return on Equity was 21% on $33.0&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital, compared with negative 5%on $26.1&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital in the prior year.2008 compared with 2007Net loss was $1.2&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $4.3&nbsp;billion from the prior year, driven by lower totalnet revenue, a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense, partially offsetby a reduction in deferred tax liabilities on overseas earnings.Total net revenue was $12.3&nbsp;billion, down $6.0&nbsp;billion, or 33%, from the prior year. Investmentbanking fees were $5.9&nbsp;billion, down 11% from the prior year, driven by lower debt underwriting andadvisory fees reflecting reduced market activity. Debt underwriting fees were $2.2&nbsp;billion, down18% from the prior year, driven by lower loan syndication and bond underwriting fees. Advisory feesof $2.0&nbsp;billion declined 12% from the prior year. Equity underwriting fees were $1.7&nbsp;billion, up 2%from the prior year driven by improved market share. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $2.0&nbsp;billion,compared with $6.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The decrease was driven by $5.9&nbsp;billion of netmarkdowns on mortgage-related exposures and $4.7&nbsp;billion of net markdowns on leveraged lendingfunded and unfunded commitments. Revenue was also adversely impacted by additional losses and coststo reduce risk related to Bear Stearns' positions. These results were offset by record performancein rates and currencies, credit trading, commodities and emerging markets as well as $814&nbsp;millionof gains from the widening of the Firm's credit spread on certain structured liabilities andderivatives. Equity Markets revenue was $3.6&nbsp;billion, down 7% from the prior year, reflecting weaktrading results, partially offset by strong client revenue across products including primeservices, as well as $510&nbsp;million of gains from the widening of the Firm's credit spread on certainstructured liabilities and derivatives. Credit portfolio revenue was $860&nbsp;million, down 40%, drivenby losses from widening counterparty credit spreads.The provision for credit losses was $2.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.4&nbsp;billion from the prior year,predominantly reflecting a higher allowance for credit losses, driven by a weakening creditenvironment, as well as the effect of the transfer of $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leveragedlending commitments to retained loans from held-for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. Netcharge-offs for the year were $105&nbsp;million, compared with $36&nbsp;million in the prior year. Totalnonperforming assets were $2.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $2.0&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year,reflecting a weakening credit environment. The allowance for loan losses to average loans was 4.71%for 2008, compared with a ratio of 2.14% in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $13.8&nbsp;billion, up $770&nbsp;million, or 6%, from the prior year, reflectinghigher noncompensation expense driven primarily by additional expense relating to the Bear Stearnsmerger, offset partially by lower performance-based compensation expense.Return on equity was negative 5% on $26.1&nbsp;billion of average allocated capital, compared with 15%on $21.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metricsMarket shares and rankings(a)According to Thomson Reuters, in 2009, the Firm was ranked #1 in Global Debt, Equity and Equity-related; #1 inGlobal Equity and Equity-related; #1 in Global Long-Term Debt: #1 in Global Syndicated Loans and #3 in GlobalAnnounced M&A, based on volume.According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1 in GlobalInvestment Banking Fees generated during 2009, based on revenue.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES&nbsp;Retail Financial Services, which includes the Retail Banking andConsumer Lending businesses, serves consumers and businesses through personalservice at bank branches and through ATMs, online banking and telephonebanking, as well as through auto dealerships and school financial-aid offices.Customers can use more than 5,100 bank branches (third-largest nationally) and15,400 ATMs (second-largest nationally), as well as online and mobile bankingaround the clock. More than 23,900 branch salespeople assist customers withchecking and savings accounts, mortgages, home equity and business loans, andinvestments across the 23-state footprint from New York and Florida toCalifornia. Consumers also can obtain loans through more than 15,700 autodealerships and nearly 2,100 schools and universities nationwide.On September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual from theFDIC for $1.9&nbsp;billion through a purchase of substantially all of the assets and assumption ofspecified liabilities of Washington Mutual. Washington Mutual's banking operations consisted of aretail bank network of 2,244 branches, a nationwide credit card lending business, a multi-familyand commercial real estate lending business, and nationwide mortgage banking activities. Thetransaction expanded the Firm's U.S. consumer branch network in California, Florida, Washington,Georgia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon and created the nation's third-largest branch network.Selected income statement data2009 compared with 2008Net income was $97&nbsp;million, a decrease of $783&nbsp;million from the prior year, as the increase inprovision for credit losses more than offset the positive impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction.Net revenue was $32.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $9.2&nbsp;billion, or 39%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $20.5&nbsp;billion, up by $6.3&nbsp;billion, or 45%, reflecting the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction, and wider loan and deposit spreads. Noninterest revenue was $12.2billion, up by $2.8&nbsp;billion, or 30%, driven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,wider margins on mortgage originations and higher net mortgage servicing revenue, partially offset by$1.6 billion in estimated losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans.The provision for credit losses was $15.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $6.0&nbsp;billion from the prior year.Weak economic conditions and housing price declines continued to drive higher estimated losses forthe home equity and mortgage loan portfolios. The provision included an addition of $5.8&nbsp;billion tothe allowance for loan losses, compared with an addition of $5.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Included in the 2009 addition to the allowance for loan losses was a $1.6&nbsp;billion increase relatedto estimated deterioration in the Washington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. To date,no charge-offs have been recorded on purchased credit-impaired loans; see page 62 of this AnnualReport for the net charge-off rates, as reported. Home equity net charge-offs were $4.7&nbsp;billion(4.32% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $2.4&nbsp;billion (2.39% excludingpurchased credit-impaired loans) in the prior year. Subprime mortgage net charge-offs were $1.6billion (11.86% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $933&nbsp;million (6.10%excluding purchased credit-impaired loans) in the prior year. Prime mortgage net charge-offs were$1.9&nbsp;billion (3.05% excluding purchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $526&nbsp;million (1.18%excluding purchased credit-impaired loans) in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $16.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $4.7&nbsp;billion, or 39%. The increase reflectedthe impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher servicing and default-relatedexpense.&nbsp; Table of Contents2008 compared with 2007Net income was $880&nbsp;million, a decrease of $2.0&nbsp;billion, or 70%, from the prior year, as asignificant increase in the provision for credit losses was partially offset by positive MSR riskmanagement results and the positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Total net revenue was $23.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $6.2&nbsp;billion, or 36%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $14.2&nbsp;billion, up $3.6&nbsp;billion, or 35%, benefiting from the Washington Mutualtransaction, wider loan and deposit spreads, and higher loan and deposit balances. Noninterestrevenue was $9.4&nbsp;billion, up $2.6&nbsp;billion, or 38%, as positive MSR risk management results, theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage origination volume and higherdeposit-related fees were partially offset by an increase in losses related to the repurchase ofpreviously sold loans and markdowns on the mortgage warehouse.The provision for credit losses was $9.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $7.3&nbsp;billion from the prior year.Delinquency rates have increased due to overall weak economic conditions, while housing pricedeclines have continued to drive increased loss severities, particularly for high loan-to-valuehome equity and mortgage loans. The provision includes $4.7&nbsp;billion in additions to the allowancefor loan losses for the heritage Chase home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home equity netcharge-offs were $2.4&nbsp;billion (2.23% net charge-off rate; 2.39% excluding purchased credit-impairedloans), compared with $564&nbsp;million (0.62% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprime mortgagenet charge-offs were $933&nbsp;million (5.49% net charge-off rate; 6.10% excluding purchasedcredit-impaired loans), compared with $157&nbsp;million (1.55% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $526&nbsp;million (1.05% net charge-off rate; 1.18% excludingpurchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $33&nbsp;million (0.13% net charge-off rate) in theprior year. The provision for credit losses was alsoaffected by an increase in estimated losses for the auto, student and business banking loanportfolios.Total noninterest expense was $12.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $2.2&nbsp;billion, or 22%, from the prioryear, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurancelosses, higher mortgage servicing expense and investments in the retail distribution network.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement'sdiscussion and analysis&nbsp;Retail BankingSelected income statement data&nbsp;2009 compared with 2008Retail Banking reported net income of $3.9&nbsp;billion, up by $921&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prioryear. Total net revenue was $18.0&nbsp;billion, up by $5.3&nbsp;billion, or 42%, from the prior year. Theincrease reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider deposit spreads, higheraverage deposit balances and higher debit card income. The provision for credit losses was $1.1billion, compared with $449&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflecting higher estimated losses in theBusiness Banking portfolio. Noninterest expense was $10.4&nbsp;billion, up by $3.1&nbsp;billion, or 43%. Theincrease reflected the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher FDIC insurance premiumsand higher headcount-related expense.2008 compared with 2007Retail Banking net income was $3.0&nbsp;billion, up $737&nbsp;million, or 33%, from the prior year. Total netrevenue was $12.6&nbsp;billion, up $2.7&nbsp;billion, or 27%, reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, wider deposit spreads, higher deposit-related fees, and higher deposit balances. Theprovision for credit losses was $449&nbsp;million, compared with $79&nbsp;million in the prior year,reflecting an increase in the allowance for loan losses for Business Banking loans due to higherestimated losses onthe portfolio. Noninterest expense was $7.2&nbsp;billion, up $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 17%, fromthe prior year,due to the Washington Mutual transaction and investments in the retail distribution network.Selected metricsRetail branch business metricsConsumer LendingSelected income statement data2009 compared with 2008Consumer Lending reported a net loss of $3.8&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $2.1&nbsp;billion inthe prior year.Net revenue was $14.7&nbsp;billion, up by $3.8&nbsp;billion, or 35%, from the prior year. The increase wasdriven by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, wider loan spreads and higher mortgagefees and related income, partially offset by lower heritage Chase loan balances. Mortgageproduction revenue was $503&nbsp;million,&nbsp; Table of Contentsdown $395&nbsp;million from the prior year, as an increase inlosses from the repurchase of previously-sold loans was predominantly offset by wider margins onnew originations. Operating revenue, which represents loan servicing revenue net of other changesin fair value of the MSR asset, was $1.7&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting growth in average third-party loans serviced as a result of the Washington Mutualtransaction. MSR risk management results were $1.6&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.5&nbsp;billion in the prioryear, reflecting the positive impact of a decrease in estimated future mortgage prepayments during2009.The provision for credit losses was $14.8&nbsp;billion, compared with $9.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year,reflecting continued weakness in the home equity and mortgage loan portfolios (see Retail FinancialServices discussion of the provision for credit losses, above on page 58 and Allowance for CreditLosses on pages 115&#150;117 of this Annual Report, for further detail).Noninterest expense was $6.4&nbsp;billion, up by $1.5&nbsp;billion, or 32%, from the prior year, reflectinghigher servicing and default-related expense and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.2008 compared with 2007Consumer Lending net loss was $2.1&nbsp;billion, compared with net income of $680million in the prior year. Total net revenue was $10.9&nbsp;billion, up $3.6&nbsp;billion, or 48%, driven byhigher mortgage fees and related income, the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higherloan balances and wider loan spreads.The increase in mortgage fees and related income was primarily driven by higher net mortgageservicing revenue. Mortgage production revenue of $898&nbsp;million was up $18&nbsp;million, as highermortgage origination volume was predominantly offset by an increase in losses related to therepurchase of previously sold loans and markdowns of the mortgage warehouse. Operating revenue,which represents loan servicing revenue net of other changes in fair value of the MSR asset was$1.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $403&nbsp;million, or 50%, from the prior year reflecting growth in averagethird-party loans serviced which increased 42%, primarily due to the Washington Mutual transaction.MSR risk management results were $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with $411&nbsp;million in the prior year.The provision for credit losses was $9.5&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Theprovision reflected weakness in the home equity and mortgage portfolios (see Retail FinancialServices discussion of the provision for credit losses for further detail).Noninterest expense was $4.8&nbsp;billion, up $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 30%, from the prior year, reflectinghigher mortgage reinsurance losses, the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higherservicing expense due to increased delinquencies and defaults.Selected metricsPurchased credit-impaired loans(a)Total consumer lending portfolio&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement'sdiscussion and analysisConsumer Lending (continued)Credit data and quality statistics&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsMortgage origination channels comprise the following:Retail &#150; Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through direct contactwith a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, theInternet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage bankerby a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or otherthird parties.Wholesale &#150; A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to amortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independent loan originators thatspecialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do not provide funding forloans. The Firm exited the broker channel during 2008.Correspondent &#150; Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financialinstitutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (&#147;CNTs&#148;) &#150; These transactions occur whenmid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned mortgage companiessell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis, and exclude purchasedbulk servicing transactions. These transactions supplement traditionalproduction channels and provide growth opportunities in the servicingportfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.Production revenue &#150; Includes net gains or losses on originations and sales ofprime and subprime mortgage loans, other production-related fees and lossesrelated to the repurchase of previously sold loans.Net mortgage servicing revenue includes the followingcomponents:&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCARD SERVICES&nbsp;Card Services is one of the nation's largest creditcard issuers, with more than 145&nbsp;million credit cards in circulation and over$163&nbsp;billion in managed loans. Customers used Chase cards to meet more than$328&nbsp;billion of their spending needs in 2009.Chase continues to innovate, despite a very difficult business environment,launching new products and services such as Blueprint, Ultimate Rewards, ChaseSapphire and Ink from Chase, and earning a market leadership position inbuilding loyalty and rewards programs. Through its merchant acquiring business,Chase Paymentech Solutions, Chase is one of the leading processors ofcredit-card payments.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managed basis&#148; to evaluate the credit performance of its creditcard loans, both loans on the balance sheet and loans that have been securitized. For furtherinformation, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures onpages 50&#150;52 of this Annual Report. Managed results exclude the impact of credit cardsecuritizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loanreceivables. Securitization does not change reported net income; however, it does affect theclassification of items on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets.The following discussion of CS's financial results reflects the acquisition of Washington Mutual'scredit cards operations, as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction on September&nbsp;25, 2008,and the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture on November&nbsp;1, 2008. See Note 2on pages 143&#150;148 of this Annual Report for more information concerning these transactions.Selected income statement data &#150; managed basis2009 compared with 2008Card Services reported a net loss of $2.2&nbsp;billion, compared with net income of $780&nbsp;million in theprior year. The decrease was driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset byhigher total net revenue.End-of-period managed loans were $163.4&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $26.9&nbsp;billion, or 14%, from theprior year, reflecting lower charge volume and a higher level of charge-offs. Average managed loanswere $172.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $9.5&nbsp;billion, or 6%, from the prior year, primarily due to theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, end-of-period and average managed loans for 2009 were $143.8&nbsp;billion and $148.8billion, respectively.Managed total net revenue was $20.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $3.8&nbsp;billion, or 23%, from the prioryear. Net interest income was $17.4&nbsp;billion, up by $3.6&nbsp;billion, or 26%, from the prior year,driven by wider loan spreads and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction. These benefitswere offset partially by higher revenue reversals associated with higher charge-offs, a decreasedlevel of fees, lower average managed loan balances, and the impact of legislative changes.Noninterest revenue was $2.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $201&nbsp;million, or 7%, from the prior year. Theincrease was driven by higher merchant servicing revenue related to the dissolution of the ChasePaymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partiallyoffset by lower securitization income.The managed provision for credit losses was $18.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $8.4&nbsp;billion from theprior year, reflecting a higher level of charge-offs and an addition of $2.4&nbsp;billion to theallowance for loan losses, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. The managed netcharge-off rate was 9.33%, up from 5.01% in the prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was6.28%, up from 4.97% in the prior year. Excluding the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,the managed net charge-off rate was 8.45%, and the 30-day managed delinquency rate was 5.52%.Noninterest expense was $5.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $241&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, dueto the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions joint venture and the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction, partially offset by lower marketing expense.2008 compared with 2007Net income was $780&nbsp;million, a decline of $2.1&nbsp;billion, or 73%, from the prior year. The decreasewas driven by a higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher total net revenue.Average managed loans were $162.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $13.5&nbsp;billion, or 9%, from the prioryear. End-of-period managed loans were $190.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $33.3&nbsp;billion, or 21%, fromthe prior year. Excluding Washington Mutual, average managed loans were $155.9&nbsp;billion andend-of-period managed loans were $162.1&nbsp; Table of Contentsbillion. The increases in both average managed loans and end-of-period managed loans werepredominantly due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and organic portfolio growth.Managed total net revenue was $16.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.2&nbsp;billion, or 8%, from the prioryear. Net interest income was $13.8&nbsp;billion, up $1.6&nbsp;billion, or 13%, from the prior year, drivenby the Washington Mutual transaction, higher average managed loan balances, and wider loan spreads.These benefits were offset partially by the effect of higher revenue reversals associated withhigher charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was $2.7&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $327&nbsp;million, or 11%, fromthe prior year, driven by increased rewards expense, lower securitization income driven by highercredit losses, and higher volume-driven payments to partners; these were largely offset byincreased interchange income, benefiting from a 4% increase in charge volume, as well as the impactof the Washington Mutual transaction.The managed provision for credit losses was $10.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $4.3&nbsp;billion, or 76%,from the prior year, due to an increase of $1.7&nbsp;billion in the allowance for loan losses and ahigher level of charge-offs. The managed net charge-off rate increased to 5.01%, up from 3.68% inthe prior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 4.97%, up from 3.48% in the prior year.Excluding Washington Mutual, the managed net charge-off rate was 4.92% and the 30-day delinquencyrate was 4.36%.Noninterest expense was $5.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $226&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year,predominantly due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.The following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSelected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp;The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclosethe effect of securitizations.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsCOMMERCIAL BANKING&nbsp;Commercial Banking serves nearly 25,000 clientsnationally, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenuegenerally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion, and more than 30,000 realestate investors/owners. Delivering extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedicatedservice, CB partners with the Firm's other businesses to provide comprehensivesolutions, including lending, treasury services, investment banking and assetmanagement to meet itsclients' domestic and international financial needs.On September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired the banking operations of Washington Mutual fromthe FDIC, adding approximately $44.5&nbsp;billion in loans to the Commercial Term Lending, RealEstate Banking and Other businesses in Commercial Banking.Commercial Banking is divided into four primary client segments: Middle Market Banking, CommercialTerm Lending, Mid-Corporate Banking, and Real Estate Banking. Middle Market Banking coverscorporate, municipal, financial institution and not-for-profit clients, with annual revenuegenerally ranging between $10&nbsp;million and $500&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients withannual revenue generally ranging between $500&nbsp;million and $2&nbsp;billion and focuses on clients thathave broader investment banking needs. Commercial Term Lending primarily provides term financing toreal estate investors/owners for multi-family properties as well as financing office, retail andindustrial properties. Real Estate Banking provides full-service banking to investors anddevelopers of institutional-grade real estate properties.Selected income statement dataSelected income statement data&nbsp;2009 compared with 2008Net income was $1.3&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $168&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year, as higherprovision for credit losses and noninterest expense was partially offset by higher net revenue,reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Record net revenue of $5.7&nbsp;billion increased $943&nbsp;million, or 20%, from the prior year. Netinterest income of $3.9&nbsp;billion increased $607&nbsp;million, or 18%, driven by the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction. Noninterest revenue was $1.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $336&nbsp;million,or 23%, from the prior year, reflecting higher lending- and deposit-related fees and higherinvestment banking fees and other income.On a client-segment basis, revenue from Middle Market Banking was $3.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $116million, or 4%, from the prior year due to higher liability balances, a shift to higher-spreadliability products, wider loan spreads, higher lending- and deposit-related fees, and higher otherincome, partially offset by a narrowing of spreads on liability products and reduced loan balances.Revenue from Commercial Term Lending (a new client segment acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction encompassing multi-family and commercial mortgage loans) was $875&nbsp;million, an increaseof $632&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $1.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $181&nbsp;million, or20%, driven by higher investment banking fees, increased loan spreads, and higher lending- anddeposit-related fees. Real Estate Banking revenue was $461&nbsp;million, an increase of $48&nbsp;million, or12%, due to the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.The provision for credit losses was $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with$464&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment,predominantly in real estate-related segments. Net charge-offs were $1.1&nbsp;billion (1.02% netcharge-off rate), compared with $288&nbsp;million (0.35% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Theallowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans retained was 3.12%, up from 2.45% in the prioryear. Nonperforming loans were $2.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.8&nbsp;billion from the prior year.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisNoninterest expense was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $230&nbsp;million, or 12%, from the prior year, dueto the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction and higher FDIC insurance premiums.2008 compared with 2007Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $305&nbsp;million, or 27%, from the prior year, due togrowth in total net revenue including the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partiallyoffset by a higher provision for credit losses.Record total net revenue of $4.8&nbsp;billion increased $674&nbsp;million, or 16%. Net interest income of$3.3&nbsp;billion increased $456&nbsp;million, or 16%, driven by double-digit growth in liability and loanbalances and the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction, partially offset by spreadcompression in the liability and loan portfolios. Noninterest revenue was $1.5&nbsp;billion, up $218million, or 17%, due to higher deposit- and lending-related fees.On a client-segment basis, Middle Market Banking revenue was$2.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $250&nbsp;million, or 9%, from the prior year duepredominantly to higher deposit-related fees and growth in liability and loan balances. Revenuefrom Commercial Term Lending, a new client segment acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction,was $243&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $921&nbsp;million, an increase of $106&nbsp;million, or13%, reflecting higher loan balances, investment banking revenue and deposit-related fees. RealEstate Banking revenue of $413&nbsp;million decreased $8&nbsp;million, or 2%.Provision for credit losses was $464&nbsp;million, an increase of $185&nbsp;million, or 66%, compared withthe prior year, reflecting a weakening credit environment and loan growth. Net charge-offs were$288&nbsp;million (0.35% net charge-off rate), compared with $44&nbsp;million (0.07% net charge-off rate) inthe prior year, predominantly related to an increase in real estate charge-offs. The allowance forloan losses increased by $1.1&nbsp;billion, which primarily reflected the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction. Nonperforming assets were $1.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.0&nbsp;billion comparedwith the prior year, predominantly reflecting the Washington Mutual transaction and higher realestate&#150;related balances.Noninterest expense was $1.9&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $12&nbsp;million, or 1%, from the prior year, due tolower performance-based incentive compensation and volume-based charges from service providers,predominantly offset by the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Selected metricsSelected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsTREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in transaction,investment and information services. TSS is one of the world's largest cashmanagement providers and a leading global custodian. Treasury Servicesprovides cash management, trade, wholesale card and liquidity products andservices to small and mid-sized companies, multinational corporations,financial institutions and government entities. TS partners with theCommercial Banking, Retail Financial Services and Asset Management businessesto serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue is included inother segments' results. Worldwide Securities Services holds, values, clearsand services securities, cash and alternative investments for investors andbroker-dealers, and it manages depositary receipt programs globally.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2009 compared with 2008Net income was $1.2&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $541&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prior year, driven bylower net revenue.Net revenue was $7.3&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $790&nbsp;million, or 10%, from the prior year. WorldwideSecurities Services net revenue was $3.6&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $713&nbsp;million, or 16%. The decreasewas driven by lower securities lending balances, primarily as a result of declines in assetvaluations and demand, lower balances and spreads on liability products, and the effect of marketdepreciation on certain custody assets. Treasury Services net revenue was $3.7&nbsp;billion, a decreaseof $77&nbsp;million, or 2%, reflecting spread compression on deposit products, offset by higher traderevenue driven by wider spreads and growth across cash management and card product volumes.TSS generated firmwide net revenue of $10.2&nbsp;billion, including $6.6&nbsp;billion of net revenue inTreasury Services; of that amount, $3.7&nbsp;billion was recorded in the Treasury Services business,$2.6&nbsp;billion was recorded in the Commercial Banking business, and $245&nbsp;million was recorded inother lines of business. The remaining $3.6&nbsp;billion of net revenue was recorded in WorldwideSecurities Services.The provision for credit losses was $55&nbsp;million, a decrease of $27&nbsp;million from the prior year.Noninterest expense was $5.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $55&nbsp;million from the prior year. The increasewas driven by higher FDIC insurance premiums, predominantly offset by lower headcount-relatedexpense.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2008 compared with 2007Net income was a record $1.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $370&nbsp;million, or 26%, from the prior year,driven by higher total net revenue. This increase was largely offset by higher noninterest expense.Total net revenue was a record $8.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.2&nbsp;billion, or 17%, from the prioryear. Worldwide Securities Services posted record net revenue of $4.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $600million, or 16%, from the prior year. The growth was driven by wider spreads in securities lending,foreign exchange and liability products, increased product usage by new and existing clients(largely in custody, fund services, alternative investment services and depositary receipts) andhigher liability balances, reflecting increased client deposit activity resulting from recentmarket conditions. These benefits were offset partially by market depreciation. Treasury Servicesposted record net revenue of $3.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $589&nbsp;million, or 18%, reflecting higherliability balances and volume growth in electronic funds transfer products and trade loans. Revenuegrowth from higher liability balances reflects increased client deposit activity resulting fromrecent market conditions as well as organic growth. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includesTreasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $11.1&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $1.5&nbsp;billion, or 16%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $6.7&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $916&nbsp;million, or 16%.Noninterest expense was $5.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $643&nbsp;million, or 14%, from the prior year,reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth as well as continued investment innew product platforms.Selected metricsSelected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsASSET MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Asset Management, with assets under supervision of $1.7 trillion, is aglobal leader in investment and wealth management. AM clients includeinstitutions, retail investors and high-net-worth individuals in every majormarket throughout the world. AM offers global investment management inequities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity andliquidity, including money market instruments and bank deposits. AM alsoprovides trust and estate, banking and brokerage services to high-net-worthclients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals. Themajority of AM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2009 compared with 2008Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $73&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, due to highertotal net revenue, offset largely by higher noninterest expense and provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $8.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $381&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $6.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $306&nbsp;million, or 5%, due to higher valuationsof seed capital investments and net inflows, offset largely by lower market levels. Net interestincome was $1.6&nbsp;billion, up by $75&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year, due to wider loan spreadsand higher deposit balances, offset partially by narrower deposit spreads.Revenue from the Private Bank was $2.6&nbsp;billion, up 1% from the prior year due to wider loan spreadsand higher deposit balances, offset partially by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue fromInstitutional was $2.1&nbsp;billion, up 16% due to higher valuations of seed capital investments and netinflows, offset partially by the effect of lower market levels. Revenue from Retail was $1.6billion, down 2% due to the effect of lower market levels, offset largely by higher valuations ofseed capital investments. Revenue from Private Wealth Management was $1.3&nbsp;billion, down 5% due tonarrower deposit spreads and the effect of lower market levels, offset partially by higher depositbalances and wider loan spreads. Bear Stearns Private Client Services contributed $419&nbsp;million torevenue.The provision for credit losses was $188&nbsp;million, an increase of $103&nbsp;million from the prior year,reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment.Noninterest expense was $5.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $175&nbsp;million, or 3%, from the prior year dueto the effect of the Bear Stearns merger, higher performance-based compensation and higher FDICinsurance premiums, offset largely by lower headcount-related expense.2008 compared with 2007Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, a decline of $609&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prior year, driven bylower total net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense.Total net revenue was $7.6&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 12%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $6.1&nbsp;billion, a decline of $1.4&nbsp;billion, or 19%, due to lower performancefees and the effect of market levels, including the impact of lower market valuations of seedcapital investments. The lower results were offset partially by the benefit of the Bear Stearnsmerger and increased revenue from net asset inflows. Net interest income was $1.5&nbsp;billion, up $358million, or 31%, from the prior year, due to higher deposit and loan balances and wider depositspreads.Private Bank revenue grew 9% to $2.6&nbsp;billion, due to increased deposit and loan balances and netasset inflows, partially offset by the effect of lower markets and lower performance fees.Institutional revenue declined 30% to $1.8&nbsp;billion due to lower performance fees, partially offsetby net liquidity inflows. Retail revenue declined 33% to $1.6&nbsp;billion due to the effect of lowermarkets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital investments and net equityoutflows. Private Wealth Management revenue grew 4% to $1.4&nbsp;billion due to higher deposit and loanbalances. Bear Stearns Brokerage contributed $237&nbsp;million to revenue. &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe provision for credit losses was $85&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $18&nbsp;million in theprior year, reflecting a weakening credit environment.Noninterest expense was $5.3&nbsp;billion, down $217&nbsp;million, or 4%, compared with the prior year due tolower performance-based compensation, largely offset by the effect of the Bear Stearns merger andhigher compensation expense resulting from increased average headcount.Selected metrics&nbsp;AM's client segments comprise the following:Institutional brings comprehensive global investment services &#150; includingasset management, pension analytics, asset-liability management and activerisk-budgeting strategies &#150; to corporate and public institutions, endowments,foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governments worldwide.Retail provides worldwide investment management services and retirementplanning and administration, through third-party and direct distribution of afull range of investment vehicles.The Private Bank addresses every facet of wealth management forultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide, including investmentmanagement, capital markets and risk management, tax and estate planning,banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.Private Wealth Management offers high-net-worth individuals, families andbusiness owners in the United States comprehensive wealth managementsolutions, including investment management, capital markets and riskmanagement, tax and estate planning, banking and specialty-wealth advisoryservices.Bear Stearns Private Client Services (renamed to JPMorgan Securities at thebeginning of 2010) provides investment advice and wealth management servicesto high-net-worth individuals, money managers, and small corporations.J.P. Morgan Asset Management has established two high-level measures of its overall performance. &nbsp; Table of ContentsAssets under supervision2009 compared with 2008Assets under supervision were $1.7 trillion, an increase of $205&nbsp;billion, or 14%, from the prioryear. Assets under management were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $116&nbsp;billion, or 10%, from theprior year. The increases were due to the effect of higher market valuations and inflows in fixedincome and equity products offset partially by outflows in cash products. Custody, brokerage,administration and deposit balances were $452&nbsp;billion, up by $89&nbsp;billion, due to the effect ofhigher market levels on custody and brokerage balances, and brokerage inflows in the Private Bank.The Firm also has a 42% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $86&nbsp;billionand $70&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above.2008 compared with 2007Assets under supervision were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $76&nbsp;billion, or 5%, from the prior year.Assets under management were $1.1 trillion, down $60&nbsp;billion, or 5%, from the prior year. Thedecrease was due to the effect of lower market valuations and non-liquidity outflows, predominantlyoffset by liquidity product inflows across all segments and the addition of Bear Stearns assetsunder management. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $363&nbsp;billion, down$16&nbsp;billion due to the effect of lower markets on brokerage and custody balances, offset by theaddition of Bear Stearns Brokerage. The Firm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies,Inc., whose AUM totaled $70&nbsp;billion and $102&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, respectively,which are excluded from the AUM above.&nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY&nbsp;The Corporate/Private Equity sector comprisesPrivate Equity, Treasury, the Chief Investment Office, corporate staff unitsand expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and the Chief InvestmentOffice manage capital, liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk andthe investment portfolio for the Firm. The corporate staff units includeCentral Technology and Operations, Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance,Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Legal & Compliance, CorporateReal Estate and General Services, Risk Management, Corporate Responsibilityand Strategy & Development. Other centrally managed expense includes theFirm's occupancy and pension-related expense, net of allocations to thebusiness.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2009 compared with 2008Net income was $3.0&nbsp;billion compared with $557&nbsp;million in the prior year.Net loss for Private Equity was $78&nbsp;million compared with a net loss of $690&nbsp;million in the prioryear. Net revenue was $18&nbsp;million, an increase of $981&nbsp;million, reflecting Private Equity losses of$54&nbsp;million compared with losses of $894&nbsp;million. Noninterest expense was $141&nbsp;million, an increaseof $21&nbsp;million.Net income for Corporate was $3.7&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Currentyear results reflect higher levels of trading gains and net interest income, securities gains, anafter-tax gain of $150&nbsp;million from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially offset by a $419million FDIC special assessment. Trading gains and net interest income increased due to the Chief Investment Office's (&#147;CIO&#148;)significant purchases of mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies,corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and other asset-backedsecurities. These investments were generally associated with the management of interest rate riskand investment of cash resulting from the excess funding the Firm continued to experience during2009. The increase in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-coupon instruments (partof repositioning the investment portfolio) as well as prepayments and maturities.Selected income statement and balance sheet data for Treasury/CIO&nbsp; For further information on theinvestment portfolio, see Note 3 and Note 11 on pages 148&#150;165 and 187&#150;191, respectively.For further information on CIO VaR and the Firm's Earnings-at-risk, see the Market Risk Management section on pages 118&#150;124 of this Annual Report. Prior year results included $955&nbsp;million proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in its initialpublic offering, $627&nbsp;million from the dissolution of the Chase Payment Solutions joint venture,partially offset by losses of $642&nbsp;million on preferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Macand a $248&nbsp;million charge related to the offer to repurchases auction-rate securities.Merger-related items were a net loss of $635&nbsp;million compared with a loss of $211&nbsp;million in theprior year. Bear Stearns net merger-related costs were $425&nbsp;million compared with $836&nbsp;million. Theprior year included a net loss of $423&nbsp;million, which represented JPMorgan Chase's 49.4% ownershipin Bear Stearn's losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008. Washington Mutual net merger-related costswere $210&nbsp;million, which included an extraordinary gain of $76&nbsp;million, compared with a net gain of$625&nbsp;million. The prior year included an extraordinary gain of $1.9&nbsp;billion, conforming loan lossreserves of $911&nbsp;million, credit card related loan loss reserves of $250&nbsp;million and netmerger-related costs of $120&nbsp;million. &nbsp; Table of Contents2008 compared with 2007Net income for Corporate/Private Equity was $557&nbsp;million, compared with net income of $1.9&nbsp;billionin the prior year.Net loss for Private Equity was $690&nbsp;million, compared with net income of $2.2&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. Net revenue was a loss of $963&nbsp;million, a decrease of $4.9&nbsp;billion, reflecting Private Equitylosses of $894&nbsp;million, compared with gains of $4.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Noninterest expensewas $120&nbsp;million, a decrease of $469&nbsp;million from the prior year, reflecting lower compensationexpense.Net income for Corporate was $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with a net loss of $150&nbsp;million in the prioryear. 2008 included a gain of $955&nbsp;million on the proceeds from the sale of Visa shares in itsinitial public offering, $627&nbsp;million on the dissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions jointventure, and $414&nbsp;million from the sale of MasterCard shares, partially offset by losses of $642million on preferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $303&nbsp;million related to the offerto repurchase auction-rate securities. 2007 included a gain of $145&nbsp;million on the sale ofMasterCard shares.Merger-relateditems were a net loss of $211&nbsp;million, compared with a net loss of $130&nbsp;million inthe prior year. Items related to the Washington Mutual transaction included a $1.9&nbsp;billionextraordinary gain, conforming loan loss reserves of $911&nbsp;million, credit card related loan lossreserves of $250&nbsp;million and net merger-related costs of $120&nbsp;million. Bear Stearns merger-relateditems included a net loss of $423&nbsp;million, which represented JPMorgan Chase's 49.4% ownership inBear Stearn's losses from April 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008 and net merger-related costs of $413&nbsp;million.Results for 2007 include merger costs of $130&nbsp;million related to the Bank One and Bank of New YorkTransactions.Selected metrics&nbsp; Private equity portfolio2009 compared with 2008The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2009, was $7.3&nbsp;billion, up from$6.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. The portfolio increase was primarily driven by additionalfollow-on investments and net unrealized gains on the existing portfolio, partially offset by salesduring 2009. The portfolio represented 6.3% of the Firm's stockholders' equity less goodwill atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, up from 5.8% at December&nbsp;31, 2008.2008 compared with 2007The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2008, was $6.9&nbsp;billion, downfrom $7.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2007. The portfolio decrease was primarily driven by unfavorablevaluation adjustments on existing investments, partially offset by new investments, and theaddition of the Bear Stearns portfolios. The portfolio represented 5.8% of the Firm's stockholders'equity less goodwill at December&nbsp;31, 2008, down from 9.2% at December&nbsp;31, 2007.Selected income statement and balance sheet data&nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisBALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS&nbsp;Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets dataConsolidated Balance Sheets overviewThe following is a discussion of the significant changes in the Consolidated Balance Sheets fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2008.Deposits with banks; federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements; andsecurities borrowedThe Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management activities, to manage theFirm's cash positions and risk-based capital requirements, and to support the Firm's trading andrisk management activities. In particular, the Firm uses securities purchased under resaleagreements and securities borrowed to provide funding or liquidity to clients by purchasing andborrowing their securities for the short-term. The decrease in deposits with banks primarilyreflected lower demand for interbank lending and lower deposits with the Federal Reserve Bankrelative to the elevated levels at the end of 2008. The decrease in securities purchased underresale agreements was largely due to a shift by the Firm of its excess cash to theavailable-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) securities portfolio, offset partially by higher securities purchasedunder resale agreements in IB due to improved and more liquid market conditions.For additionalinformation on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 88&#150;92 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; debt and equityinstrumentsDebt and equity trading instruments are used for both market-making and, to a limited extent,proprietary risk-taking activities. These instruments consist predominantly of fixed-incomesecurities, including government and corporate debt; equity securities, including convertiblesecurities; loans, including prime mortgage and other loans warehoused by RFS and IB for sale orsecuritization purposes and accounted for at fair value; and physical commodities inventoriescarried at the lower of cost or fair value. The decrease in trading assets &#150; debt and equityinstruments reflected the effect of balance sheet management activities and the impact of thechallenging capital markets environment that existed during the latter part of 2008, whichcontinued into the first half of 2009, partially offset by stabilization in the capital marketsduring the second half of 2009. Trading liabilities &#150; debt and equity instruments increased asmarket conditions improved and capital markets stabilized from the prior year. For additionalinformation, refer to Note 3 on pages 148&#150;165 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivative receivables and payablesDerivative instruments enable end-users to transform or mitigate exposure to credit or marketrisks. The value of a derivative is derived from its reference to an underlying variable orcombination of variables, such as interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity or commodityprices or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers and also usesderivatives to hedge or manage risks of market exposures and to make investments. The majority ofthe Firm's derivatives are entered into for market-making purposes. The decrease in derivativereceivables and payables was primarily related to tightening credit spreads, volatile foreignexchange rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps. For additional information, refer toDerivative contracts on pages 102&#150;104, and Note 3 and Note 5 on pages 148&#150;165 and 167&#150;175,respectively, of this Annual Report.SecuritiesSubstantially all of the securities portfolio is classified as AFS and is used primarily to managethe Firm's exposure to interest rate movements and to invest cash resulting from excess fundingpositions. The increase in the securities portfolio was due to elevated levels of excess cash,which was used to purchase mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies,corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and other asset-backedsecurities. The increase in securities was partially offset by sales of higher-coupon instruments,as part of positioning of the portfolio, as well as prepayments and maturities. For additionalinformation related to securities, refer to the Corporate/Private Equity segment on pages 74&#150;75,and Note 3 and Note 11 on pages 148&#150;165 and 187&#150;191, respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsLoans and allowance for loan lossesThe Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clientsto individual consumers. Loans decreased across most lines of business. Although gross new lendingvolumes remained at levels consistent with 2008, continued lower customer demand, repayments andcharge-offs in the wholesale and consumer businesses resulted in lower balances. Lower chargevolume on credit cards and the effect of tighter underwriting and loan qualification standards,also contributed to the decrease in loans.The allowance for loan losses increased in both the consumer and wholesale businesses, as weakeconomic conditions, housing price declines and higher unemployment rates continued to drive higherestimated losses for most of the Firm's loan portfolios. For a more detailed discussion of the loanportfolio and the allowance for loan losses, refer to CreditRisk Management on pages 93&#150;117, and Notes3, 4, 13 and 14 on pages 148&#150;165, 165&#150;167, 192&#150;196 and 196&#150;198, respectively, of this AnnualReport.Accrued interest and accounts receivableAccrued interest and accounts receivable consist of accrued interest receivables frominterest-earning assets; receivables from customers (primarily from activities related to IB'sPrime Services business); receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations; andreceivables from failed securities sales. The increase in accrued interest and accounts receivableprimarily reflected higher accounts receivable associated with maturities of credit cardsecuritizations, as well as slightly higher failed securities sales.Other assetsOther assets consist of private equity and other investments, collateral received, corporate andbank-owned life insurance policies, assets acquired in loan satisfactions (including real estateowned) and all other assets, including receivables for securities provided as collateral. Thedecrease in other assets was primarily due to a decline to zero in the balance related to theFederal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility. This Facility was ended by the Federal Reserve Bank ofBoston on February&nbsp;1, 2010.GoodwillGoodwill arises from business combinations and represents the excess of the purchase price of anacquired entity over the fair value amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed.The increase in goodwill was largely due to final purchase accounting adjustments related to theBear Stearns merger, foreign currency translation adjustments related to the Firm's Canadian creditcard operations, and IB's acquisition of a commodities business. For additional information ongoodwill, see Note 17 on pages 214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.Mortgage servicing rightsMSRs represent the fair value of future cash flows for performing specified mortgage servicingactivities (predominantly with respect to residential mortgages) for others. MSRs are eitherpurchased from third parties or retained upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans. Servicingactivities include collecting principal, interest, and escrow payments from borrowers; making taxand insurance payments on behalf of borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and executing foreclosureproceedings; and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to the investors ofthe mortgage-backed securities. MSRs increased due to increases in the fairvalue of the MSR asset,related primarily to market interest rate and other changes affecting the Firm's estimate of futureprepayments, as well as sales in RFS of originated loans for which servicing rights were retained.These increases were offset partially by servicing portfolio run-off. For additional information onMSRs, see Note 17 on pages 214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.Other intangible assetsOther intangible assets consist of purchased credit card relationships, other credit card-relatedintangibles, core deposit intangibles and other intangibles. The decrease in other intangibleassets primarily reflected amortization expense, partially offset by foreign currency translationadjustments related to the Firm's Canadian credit card operations. For additional information onother intangible assets, see Note 17 on pages 214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.DepositsDeposits represent a liability to customers, both retail and wholesale, related to non-brokeragefunds held on their behalf. Deposits are classified by location (U.S. and non-U.S.), whether theyare interest- or noninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand, money market, savings, time ornegotiable order of withdrawal accounts). Deposits help provide a stable and consistent source offunding for the Firm. Wholesale deposits in TSS declined from the elevated levels at December&nbsp;31,2008, reflecting the continued normalization of deposit levels following the strong inflowsresulting from the heightened volatility and credit concerns affecting the markets during thelatter part of 2008. Organic growth in deposits in CB and RFS was offset partially by the maturityof high rate interest-bearing CDs that were acquired as part of the Washington Mutual transaction.For more information on deposits, refer to the RFS and AM segment discussions on pages 58&#150;63 and71&#150;73, respectively; the Liquidity Risk Management discussion onpages 88&#150;92; and Note 19 on page218 of this Annual Report. For more information on wholesale liability balances, includingdeposits, refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 67&#150;68 and 69&#150;70, respectively, ofthis Annual Report.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe Firm uses these instruments as part of its liquidity management activities and to support theFirm's trading and risk management activities. In particular, the Firm uses federal funds purchasedand securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements as short-term funding sources and to makesecurities available to clients for their short-term liquidity purposes. The increase in securitiessold under repurchase agreements was primarily attributable to favorable pricing and the financingof the increase in the AFS securities portfolio. For additional information on the Firm's LiquidityRisk Management, see pages 88&#150;92 of this Annual Report.Commercial paper and other borrowed fundsThe Firm uses commercial paper and other borrowed funds as part of its liquidity managementactivities to meet short-term funding needs, and in connection with a TSS liquidity managementproduct, whereby excess client funds are transferred into commercial paper overnight sweepaccounts. The decrease in other borrowed funds was predominantly due to lower advances from FederalHome Loan Banks; the absence of borrowings from the Federal Reserve under the Term&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAuction Facilityprogram and a decline to zero in the balance related to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AMLFacility, which was ended on February&nbsp;1, 2010. For additional information on the Firm's LiquidityRisk Management and other borrowed funds, see pages 88&#150;92, and Note 20 on page 219 of this AnnualReport.Accounts payable and other liabilitiesAccounts payable and other liabilities consist of accounts payable to customers (primarily fromactivities related to IB's Prime Services business); payables to brokers, dealers and clearingorganizations; payables from failed securities purchases; accrued expense, includinginterest-bearing liabilities; and all other liabilities, including obligations to return securitiesreceived as collateral. The decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities primarily reflectedlower customer payables due predominantly to lower balances in the brokerage accounts of IB's PrimeServices customers.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsJPMorgan Chase uses VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial markets in a cost-efficientmanner. A VIE is consolidated if the Firm will absorb a majority of a VIE's expected losses,receive a majority of a VIE's expected residual returns, or both. Included in the caption&#147;beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs&#148; are interest-bearing beneficial-interestliabilities issued by the consolidated VIEs, which increased as a result of the consolidationduring the second quarter of 2009 of a multi-seller conduit and a credit card loan securitizationtrust (Washington Mutual Master Trust). For additional information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loansecuritization trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Cash Obligations below,and Note 16 on pages 206&#150;214 of this Annual Report.Long-term debtThe Firm uses long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) to providecost-effective and diversified sources of funds and as critical components of the Firm's liquidityand capital management activities. Long-term debt decreased slightly, predominantly due to netredemptions and maturities. The Firm also issued $11.0&nbsp;billion and $2.6&nbsp;billion of non-FDICguaranteed debt in the U.S. and European markets, respectively, and $2.5&nbsp;billion of trust preferredcapital debt securities. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activities, seethe Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 88&#150;92 of this Annual Report.Stockholders' equityThe decrease in total stockholders' equity was largely due to the redemption in the second quarterof 2009 of the $25.0&nbsp;billion Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to TARP,and the declaration of cash dividends on preferred and common stock. The decrease was almostentirely offset by net income for 2009; the issuance of $5.8&nbsp;billion of common equity in the publicmarkets; a net increase in accumulated other comprehensive income, due primarily to net unrealizedgains from overall market spread and market liquidity improvement, as well as changes in thecomposition of investments in the AFS securities portfolio; and net issuances under the Firm'semployee stock-based compensation plans. For a further discussion, see the Capital Managementsection on pages 82&#150;85, Note 23 on pages 222&#150;223 and Note 26 on page 225 of this Annual Report.OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase isinvolved with several types of off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities(&#147;SPEs&#148;) and lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesThe basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase ofthose assets by issuing securities to investors in the form of commercial paper, short-termasset-backed notes, medium-term notes and other forms of interest. SPEs are generally structured toinsulate investors from claims on the SPE's assets by creditors of other entities, including thecreditors of the seller of the assets.SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitatinginvestors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. These arrangements are integral tothe markets for mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and other asset-backed securities.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its clients by securitizingfinancial assets, and by creating investment products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEsthrough multi-seller conduits and investor intermediation activities, and as a resultof its loansecuritizations, through qualifying special purpose entities (&#147;QSPEs&#148;). This discussion focusesmostly on multi-seller conduits and investor intermediation. For a detailed discussion of all SPEswith which the Firm is involved, and the related accounting, see Note 1, Note 15 and Note 16 onpages 142&#150;143, 198&#150;205 and 206&#150;214, respectively, of this Annual Report.During the quarter ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, the Firm took certain actions related to both the ChaseIssuance Trust (the &#147;Trust&#148;) and the Washington Mutual Master Trust (the &#147;WMM Trust&#148;). Theseactions and their impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets and results of operations arefurther discussed in Note 15 on pages 198&#150;205 of this Annual Report.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and relatedexposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm modifies loans that it services, and that were sold to off-balance sheet SPEs, pursuant tothe U.S. Treasury's Making Home Affordable (&#147;MHA&#148;) programs and the Firm's other loss mitigationprograms. For both the Firm's on-balance sheet loans and loans serviced for others, approximately600,000 mortgage modifications had been offered to borrowers in 2009. Of these, 89,000 have&nbsp; Table of Contentsachieved permanent modification. Substantially all of the loans contractually modified to date weremodified under the Firm's other loss mitigation programs. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages106&#150;115 of this Annual Report for more details on these loan modifications.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with whichthe Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rulesprohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with whichthey or their family have any significant financial interest.Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if theshort-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., was downgraded below specific levels,primarily &#147;P-1&#148;, &#147;A-1&#148; and &#147;F1&#148; for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amountof these liquidity commitments was $34.2&nbsp;billion and $61.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008,respectively. Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., were downgraded, the Firm could bereplaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of providing funding under the liquidity commitmentor, in certain circumstances, the Firm could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets inthe SPE in order to provide liquidity. The Firm's liquidity commitments to SPEs are included inother unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements, as shown in theOff-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees table on page 81 of thisAnnual Report.As noted above, the Firm is involved with three types of SPEs: multi-seller conduits, investorintermediation, and its own loan securitization activities. A summary of each type of SPE follows.Multi-seller conduitsThe Firm helps customers meet their financing needs by providing access to the commercial papermarkets through VIEs known as multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduit entities are separatebankruptcy-remote entities that purchase interests in, and make loans secured by, pools ofreceivables and other financial assets pursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm. Theconduits fund their purchases and loans through the issuance ofhighly-rated commercial paper tothird-party investors. The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flowfrom the pools of assets. JPMorgan Chase receives fees related to the structuring of multi-sellerconduit transactions and receives compensation from the multi-seller conduits for its role asadministrative agent, liquidity provider, and provider of program-wide credit enhancement.Investor intermediationAs a financial intermediary, the Firm creates certain types of VIEs and also structurestransactions, typically derivative structures, with these VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm mayalso provide liquidity and other support. The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquiditycommitments are managed similarly to other credit, market and liquidity risks to which the Firm isexposed. The principal types of VIEs the Firm uses in these structuring activities are municipalbond vehicles, credit-linked note vehicles, asset swap vehicles and collateralized debt obligationvehicles.Loan securitizationsJPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety of loans, including residential mortgages, creditcards, automobile, student, and commercial loans (primarily related to real estate). JPMorganChase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securitization process. These SPEs werestructured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as discussed in Note 1 on pages 142&#150;143 of this AnnualReport); accordingly, the assets and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs were not reflectedon the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets (except for retained interests, as described below) as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009. The primary purpose of these vehicles is to meet investor needs and generateliquidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEs are financed through theissuance of fixed- or floating-rate asset-backed securities that are sold to third-party investorsor held by the Firm. For a discussion regarding the new consolidation guidance for VIEs includingsecuritization entities, see &#147;Accounting for transfers of financial assets and consolidation ofvariable interest entities&#148; on page 133 of this Annual Report.Special-purpose entities revenueThe following table summarizes certain revenue information related to consolidated andnonconsolidated VIEs and QSPEs with which the Firm has significant involvement. The revenuereported in the table below primarily represents contractual servicing and credit fee income (i.e.,for income from acting as administrator, structurer, liquidity provider). It does not includemark-to-market gains and losses from changes in the fair value of trading positions (such asderivative transactions) entered into with VIEs. Those gains and losses are recorded in principaltransactions revenue.Revenue from VIEs and Securitization Entities(a)&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisOff-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) tomeet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instrumentsrepresents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or theFirm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty subsequentlyfail to perform according to the terms of the contract. These commitments and guarantees oftenexpire without being drawn and even higher proportions expire without a default. As a result, thetotal contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of itsactual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-relatedcommitments and guarantees and the Firm's accounting for them, see page 105 and Note 31 on pages230&#150;234 of this Annual Report.The accompanying table on the next page presents, as of December&nbsp;31, 2009, the contractual maturityamounts of off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees. The amounts inthe table for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total availablecredit for these products. The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that allavailable lines of credit for these products would be utilized at the same time. The Firm canreduce or cancel these lines of credit by providing the borrower prior notice or, in some cases,without notice as permitted by law. The accompanying table excludes certain commitments andguarantees that do not have a contractual maturity date (e.g., loan sale and securitization-relatedindemnifications). For further discussion, see Note 31 on pages 230&#150;234 of this Annual Report.Asset purchase agreements are agreements with the Firm's administered multi-seller, asset-backedcommercial paper conduits, and other third-party entities. In 2009, the Firm consolidated amulti-seller conduit due to the redemption of theexpected loss note. As a result, asset purchaseagreements, in the following table, exclude $7.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, related to thisconsolidated multi-seller conduit. The maturities, in the accompanying table, are based on theweighted-average life of the underlying assets in the SPE, which are based on the remainder of eachconduit transaction's committed liquidity facility plus either the expected weighted average lifeof the assets should the committed liquidity facility expire without renewal, or the expected timeto sell the underlying assets in the securitization market.Contractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that mayrequire future cash payments. Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily include contractsto purchase future services and capital expenditures related to real estate-related obligations andequipment.The accompanying table on the next page summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase'soff-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and significant contractual cashobligations at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Contractual purchases and capital expenditures in the table belowreflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with terms that areboth fixed and determinable. Excluded from the following table are a number of obligations to besettled in cash, primarily in under one year. These obligations are reflected on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets and include federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold underrepurchase agreements; commercial paper; other borrowed funds; purchases of debt and equityinstruments; derivative payables; and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlementfailures. Also excluded are contingent payments associated with certain acquisitions that could notbe estimated. For discussion regarding long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debtsecurities), see Note 22 on pages 220&#150;221 of this Annual Report. For discussion regarding operatingleases, see Note 30 on page 230 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents maturity information for off-balance sheet lending-related financialinstruments, guarantees and other commitments.Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCAPITAL MANAGEMENT&nbsp;A strong capital position is essential to the Firm's business strategy and competitiveposition. The Firm's capital strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables it to build andinvest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Senior managementconsiders the implications on the Firm's capital strength prior to making any decision on futurebusiness activities. In addition to considering the Firm's earnings outlook, senior managementevaluates all sources and uses of capital and makes decisions to vary any source or use to preservethe Firm's capital strength.The Firm's capital management objectives are to hold capital sufficient to:The quality and composition of capital are key factors in senior management's evaluation of theFirm's capital adequacy. The Firm strongly emphasizes the quality of its capital and, accordingly,holds a significant amount of its capital in the form of common equity. The Firm uses the followingthree capital disciplines:Regulatory capitalThe Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards for theconsolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;)establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks, includingJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.In connection with the U.S. Government's Supervisory Capital Assessment Program in 2009, U.S.banking regulators developed a new measure of capital, Tier 1 common capital, which is defined asTier 1 capital less elements of Tier 1 capital not in the form of common equity &#150; such as perpetualpreferred stock, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and trust preferred capital debtsecurities. Tier 1 common capital, a non-GAAP financial measure, is used by banking regulators,investors and analysts to assess and compare the quality and composition of the Firm's capital withthe capital of other financial services companies. The Firm uses Tier 1 common capital along withthe other capital measures presented below to assess and monitor its capital position.The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a period of 18&nbsp;months following the Bear Stearns merger,relief up to a certain specified amount and subject to certain conditions from the FederalReserve's risk-based capital and leverage requirements with respect to Bear Stearns' risk-weightedassets and other exposures acquired. The OCC granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. similar relief fromits risk-based capital and leverage requirements. The relief would have ended, by its terms, on September&nbsp;30,2009. Commencing in the second quarter of 2009, the Firm no longer adjusted its risk-based capitalratios to take into account the relief in the calculation of its risk-based capital ratios as ofJune&nbsp;30, 2009.JPMorgan Chase maintained Tier 1 and Total capital ratios at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, in excessof the well-capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve, as indicated in the tablesbelow. In addition, the Firm's Tier 1 common ratio was significantly above the 4% well-capitalizedstandard that was established at the time of the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program. For moreinformation, see Note 29 on pages 228&#150;229 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsA reconciliation of Total stockholders' equity to Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital and Totalqualifying capital is presented in the table below:Risk-based capital components and assetsThe Firm's Tier 1 common capital was $105.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with $86.9billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008, an increase of $18.4&nbsp;billion. The increase was due to net income(adjusted for DVA) of $13.2&nbsp;billion, a $5.8&nbsp;billion issuance of common stock in June&nbsp;2009, and netissuances of common stock under the Firm's employee stock-based compensation plans of $2.7&nbsp;billion.The increase was partially offset by $2.1&nbsp;billion of dividends on preferred and common stock andthe $1.1&nbsp;billion one-time noncash adjustment to common stockholders' equity related to theredemption of the $25.0&nbsp;billion Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under theCapital Purchase Program. On June&nbsp;5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8&nbsp;billion, or 163&nbsp;million shares, ofcommon stock to satisfy a regulatory condition requiring the Firm to demonstrate it could accessthe equity capital markets in order to be eligible to redeem the Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued tothe U.S. Treasury. The proceeds from this issuance were used for general corporate purposes.The Firm's Tier 1 capital was $133.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with $136.1&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, a decrease of $3.1&nbsp;billion. The decrease in Tier 1 capital reflects theredemption of the Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock, partially offset by the increase in Tier 1 commoncapital and $2.3&nbsp;billion net issuances of qualifying trust preferred capital debt securities.Additional information regarding the Firm's regulatory capital ratios and the related federalregulatory capital requirements and the capital ratios of the Firm's significant bankingsubsidiaries at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, are presented in Note 29 on pages 228&#150;229 of thisAnnual Report.Capital Purchase ProgramPursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, on October&nbsp;28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.Treasury, for total proceeds of $25.0&nbsp;billion, (i)&nbsp;2.5&nbsp;million shares of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock,and (ii)&nbsp;a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of the Firm's common stock, at an exerciseprice of $42.42 per share, subject to certain antidilution and other adjustments. On June&nbsp;17, 2009,the Firm redeemed all of the outstanding shares of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock, and repaid the full$25.0&nbsp;billion principal amount together with accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury exchanged theWarrant for 88,401,697 warrants, each of which is a warrant to purchase a share of the Firm'scommon stock at an exercise price of $42.42 per share and, on December&nbsp;11, 2009, sold the warrantsin a secondary public offering for $950&nbsp;million. The Firm did not purchase any of the warrants soldby the U.S. Treasury.Basel IIThe minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies follow theCapital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committeepublished a revision to the Accord (&#147;Basel II&#148;). The goal of the new Basel II Framework is toprovide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk managementpractices among large, internationally active banking organizations. U.S. banking regulatorspublished a final Basel II rule in December&nbsp;2007, which will require JPMorgan Chase to implementBasel II at the holding company level, as well as at certain of its key U.S. bank subsidiaries.Prior to full implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chase will be required tocomplete a qualification period of four consecutive quarters during which it will need todemonstrate that it meets the requirements of the new rule to the satisfaction of its primary U.S.banking regulators. The U.S. implementation timetable consists of the qualification period,starting no later than April&nbsp;1, 2010, followed by a minimum transition period of three years.During the transition period, Basel II risk-based capital requirements cannot fall below certainfloors based on current (&#147;Basel l&#148;) regulations. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance withall relevant Basel II rules within the established timelines. In addition, the Firm has adopted,and will continue to adopt, based on various established timelines, Basel II rules in certainnon-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisBroker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries areJ.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (&#147;JPMorgan Securities&#148;) and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. JPMorganSecurities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. are each subject to Rule&nbsp;15c3-1 under the SecuritiesExchange Act of 1934 (&#147;Net Capital Rule&#148;). JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. arealso registered as futures commission merchants and subject to Rule&nbsp;1.17 under the CommodityFutures Trading Commission (&#147;CFTC&#148;). J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., a subsidiary of JPMorganSecurities, provides clearing and settlement services.JPMorgan Securities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. have elected to compute their minimum netcapital requirements in accordance with the &#147;Alternative Net Capital Requirements&#148; of the NetCapital Rule. At December&nbsp;31, 2009, JPMorgan Securities' net capital, as defined by the Net CapitalRule, of$7.4&nbsp;billion exceeded the minimum requirement by $6.9&nbsp;billion. J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp.'s netcapital of $5.2&nbsp;billion exceeded the minimum requirement by $3.6&nbsp;billion.In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to holdtentative net capital in excess of $1.0&nbsp;billion and is also required to notify the Securities andExchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0&nbsp;billion, inaccordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix&nbsp;E of the Net Capital Rule. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum andnotification requirements.Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the risks underlying its businessactivities, using internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm measures economic capitalprimarily based on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private equity risk. Thegrowth in economic risk capital from 2008 was primarily driven by higher credit risk capital withinthe consumer businesses, due to the full year effect of the Washington Mutual transaction andrevised performance data in light of the recent weak economic environment.Credit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (IB, CB, TSS and AM) andconsumer businesses (RFS and CS).Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, both from defaults anddeclines in the portfolio value due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with an &#147;AA&#148; credit ratingstandard. Unexpected losses are losses in excess of those for which allowance for credit losses aremaintained. The capital methodology is based on several principal drivers of credit risk: exposureat default (or loan-equivalent amount), default likelihood, credit spreads, loss severity andportfolio correlation.Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is based on product and other relevant risksegmentation. Actual segment level default and severity experience are used to estimate unexpectedlosses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level consistent with an &#147;AA&#148; credit rating standard.Results for certain segments or portfolios are derived from available benchmarks and are notmodel-driven.Market risk capitalThe Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect therisk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by adverse movements inmarket variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, securities pricesand commodities prices, taking into account the liquidity of the financial instruments. Resultsfrom daily VaR, biweekly stress-test, issuer credit spread and default risk calculations as well asother factors are used to determine appropriate capital levels. Market risk capital is allocated toeach business segment based on its risk contribution. See Market Risk Management on pages 118&#150;124of this Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottoms-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based on actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environmentor the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm believes its model is consistent with the new BaselII Framework. See Operational Risk Management on page 125 of this Annual Report for moreinformation about operational risk.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to privately- and publicly- held securities, third-party fund investments, andcommitments in the private equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a declinein equity markets and related asset devaluations. In addition to negative market fluctuations,potential losses in private equity investment portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk. Thecapital allocation for the private equity portfolio is based on measurement of the loss experiencesuffered by the Firm and other market participants over a prolonged period of adverse equity marketconditions.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital is based on the following objectives:&nbsp; Table of ContentsEquity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require ifit were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Capital isalso allocated to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill and other intangiblesassociated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. Return on common equity is measuredand internal targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of a business segment'sperformance.Relative to 2008, line of business equity remained largely unchanged during 2009.In 2010, the Firm will enhance its line of business equity framework to better align equityassigned to each line of business with the anticipated changes in the business, as well as changesin the competitive and regulatory landscape. The lines of business will be capitalized based on theTier 1 common standard, rather than the Tier 1 Capital standard.Capital actionsDividendsOn February&nbsp;23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced the Firm's quarterly common stock dividendfrom $0.38 to $0.05 per share, effective with the dividend paid on April&nbsp;30, 2009, to shareholdersof record on April&nbsp;6, 2009. The action enabled the Firm to retain approximately $5&nbsp;billion incommon equity during 2009, and was taken to ensure the Firm had sufficient capital strength in theevent the very weak economic conditions that existed at the beginning of the year furtherdeteriorated.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 23 and Note 28 on pages 222&#150;223 and 228,respectively, of this Annual Report.The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on reported net income.IssuanceOn June&nbsp;5, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8&nbsp;billion, or 163&nbsp;million shares, of common stock at $35.25 pershare. On September&nbsp;30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5&nbsp;billion, or 284&nbsp;million shares, of common stockat $40.50 per share. The proceeds from these issuances were used for general corporate purposes.For additional information regarding common stock, see Note 24 on pages 223&#150;224 of this AnnualReport.Stock repurchasesIn April&nbsp;2007, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorizes therepurchase of up to $10.0&nbsp;billion of the Firm's common shares. In connection with the U.S.Treasury's sale of the warrants it received as part of the Capital Purchase Program, theBoard of Directors amended the Firm's securities repurchase program to authorize the repurchase ofwarrants for its stock. During the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm did notrepurchase any shares of its common stock. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, $6.2&nbsp;billion of authorizedrepurchase capacity remained under the repurchase program with respect to repurchases of commonstock, and all the authorized repurchase capacity remained with respect to the warrants.The authorization to repurchase common stock and warrants will be utilized at management'sdiscretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact number of shares and warrants purchased issubject to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations affecting the amountand timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill andintangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative potential investment opportunities. Therepurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables, may be executed throughopen market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 programs; andmay be suspended at any time. A Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase itsequity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common stock &#150; for example,during internal trading &#147;black-out periods.&#148; All purchases under a Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 plan must be madeaccording to a predefined plan that is established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublicinformation.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part&nbsp;II,Item&nbsp;5, Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuerpurchases of equity securities, on page 18 of JPMorgan Chase's 2009 Form 10-K.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities and the Firm's overallrisk tolerance is established in the context of the Firm's earnings power, capital, and diversifiedbusiness model. The Firm's risk management framework and governance structure are intended toprovide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in its businessactivities. It is also intended to create a culture of risk awareness and personal responsibilitythroughout the Firm. The Firm's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk iscritical to both its soundness and profitability.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure starts with each line of business being responsible formanaging its own risks. Each line of business works closely with Risk Management through its ownrisk committee and its own chief risk officer to manage its risk. Each line of business riskcommittee is responsible for decisions regarding the business' risk strategy, policies andcontrols. The Firm's Chief Risk Officer is a member of the line of business risk committees.Overlaying the line of business risk management are four corporate functions with riskmanagement&#150;related responsibilities, including the Chief Investment Office, Corporate Treasury,Legal and Compliance and Risk Management.Risk Management is headed by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer, who is a member of the Firm's OperatingCommittee and who reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, primarilythrough the Board's Risk Policy Committee. Risk Management is responsible for providing anindependent firmwide function of risk management and controls. Within the Firm's Risk Managementfunction are units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operational risk and private equityrisk, as well as risk reporting, risk policy and risk technology and operations. Risk technologyand operations is responsible for building the information technology infrastructure used tomonitor and manage risk.The Chief Investment Office and Corporate Treasury are responsible for measuring, monitoring,reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange risk.Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.In addition to the risk committees of the lines of business and the above-referenced riskmanagement functions, the Firm also has an Investment Committee, an Asset-Liability Committee andthree other risk-related committees &#150; the Risk Working Group, the Global Counterparty Committee andthe Markets Committee. All of these committees are accountable to the Operating Committee which is involved insetting the Firm's overall risk appetite. The membership of these committees are composed of seniormanagement of the Firm, including representatives of lines of business, Risk Management, Financeand other senior executives. The committees meet frequently to discuss a broad range of topicsincluding, for example, current market conditions and other external events, risk exposures, andrisk concentrations to ensure that the impact of risk factors are considered broadly across theFirm's businesses.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe Asset-Liability Committee monitors the Firm's overall interest rate risk and liquidityrisk. ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving the Firm's liquidity policy and contingencyfunding plan. ALCO also reviews the Firm's funds transfer pricing policy (through which lines ofbusiness &#147;transfer&#148; interest rate and foreign exchange risk to Corporate Treasury in theCorporate/Private Equity segment), earnings at risk, overall interest rate position, fundingrequirements and strategy, and the Firm's securitization programs (and any required liquiditysupport by the Firm of such programs).The Investment Committee, chaired by the Firm's Chief Financial Officer, oversees global mergerand acquisition activities undertaken by JPMorgan Chase for its own account that fall outside thescope of the Firm's private equity and other principal finance activities.The Risk Working Group is chaired by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer and meets monthly to reviewissues that cross lines of business such as risk policy, risk methodology, Basel II and otherregulatory issues, and such other topics referred to it by line-of-business risk committees or theFirm's Chief Risk Officer.The Markets Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, meets weekly to review, monitor anddiscuss significant risk matters, which may include credit, market and operational risk issues;market moving events; large transactions; hedging strategies; reputation risk; conflicts ofinterest; and other issues.The Global Counterparty Committee designates to the Chief Risk Officer of the Firm certaincounterparties with which the Firm may trade at exposure levels above portfolio-establishedthresholds when deemed appropriate to support the Firm's trading activities. The Committee meetsquarterly to review total exposures with these counterparties, with particular focus oncounterparty trading exposures, and to direct changes in exposure levels as needed.The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management, principally through the Board'sRisk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The Risk Policy Committee oversees senior managementrisk-related responsibilities, including reviewing management policies and performance againstthese policies and related benchmarks. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight ofguidelines and policies that govern the process by which risk assessment and management isundertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews with management the system of internalcontrols and financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliancewith the Firm's operational risk management processes.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisLIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The ability to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity is crucial to financial servicescompanies, particularly their ability to maintain appropriate levels of liquidity during periods ofadverse conditions. JPMorgan Chase's primary sources of liquidity include a diversified depositbase and access to the long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) andequity capital markets. The Firm's funding strategy is intended to ensure liquidity and diversityof funding sources to meet actual and contingent liabilities during both normal and stress periods.Consistent with this strategy, JPMorgan Chase maintains large pools of highly liquid unencumberedassets and significant sources of secured funding, and monitors its capacity in the wholesalefunding markets across various geographic regions and in various currencies. The Firm alsomaintains access to secured funding capacity through overnight borrowings from various centralbanks. Throughout the recent financial crisis, the Firm successfully raised both secured andunsecured funding.GovernanceThe Firm's governance process is designed to ensure that its liquidity position remains strong. TheAsset-Liability Committee reviews and approves the Firm's liquidity policy and contingency fundingplan. Corporate Treasury formulates and is responsible for executing the Firm's liquidity policyand contingency funding plan as well as measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm'sliquidity risk profile. JPMorgan Chase uses a centralized approach for liquidity risk management tomaximize liquidity access, minimize funding costs and permit identification and coordination ofglobal liquidity risk. This approach involves frequent communication with the business segments,disciplined management of liquidity at the parent holding company, comprehensive market-basedpricing of all assets and liabilities, continuous balance sheet management, frequent stress testingof liquidity sources, and frequent reporting to and communication with senior management and theBoard of Directors regarding the Firm's liquidity position.Liquidity monitoringThe Firm monitors liquidity trends, tracks historical and prospective on- and off-balance sheetliquidity obligations, identifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals topermit early detection of liquidity issues, and manages contingency planning (includingidentification and testing of various company-specific and market-driven stress scenarios). Varioustools, which together contribute to an overall firmwide liquidity perspective, are used to monitorand manage liquidity. Among others, these include: (i)&nbsp;analysis of the timing of liquidity sourcesversus liquidity uses (i.e., funding gaps) over periods ranging from overnight to one year; (ii)management of debt and capital issuances to ensure that the illiquid portion of the balance sheetcan be funded by equity, long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) anddeposits the Firm believes to be stable; and (iii)&nbsp;assessment of the Firm's capacity to raiseincremental unsecured and secured funding.Liquidity of the parent holding company and its nonbank subsidiaries is monitored independently aswell as in conjunction with the liquidity of the Firm's bank subsidiaries. At the parent holdingcompany level, long-term funding is managed to ensure that the parent holding company has, at aminimum, sufficient liquidity to cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries withinthe next 12&nbsp;months. For bank subsidiaries, the focus of liquidity risk management is on maintenanceof unsecured and secured funding capacity sufficient to meet on- and off-balance sheet obligations.A component of liquidity management is the Firm's contingency funding plan. The goal of the plan isto ensure appropriate liquidity during normal and stress periods. The plan considers varioustemporary and long-term stress scenarios where access to wholesale unsecured funding is severelylimited or nonexistent, taking into account both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, andseparately evaluates access to funding sources by the parent holding company and the Firm's bank subsidiaries.Recent eventsThe extraordinary levels of volatility exhibited in global markets during the second half of 2008began to subside in 2009. Market participants were able to regain access to the debt, equity andconsumer loan securitization markets as spreads tightened and liquidity returned to the markets.The Firm believes its liquidity position is strong, based on its liquidity metrics as of December31, 2009. The Firm believes that its unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meetits on- and off-balance sheet obligations. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding, including coreliabilities, exceeded illiquid assets.On March&nbsp;30, 2009, the Federal Reserve announced that, effective April&nbsp;27, 2009, it would reducethe amount it lent against certain loans pledged as collateral to the Federal Reserve Banks fordiscount window or payment-system risk purposes, in order to reflect recent trends in the values ofthose types of collateral. On October&nbsp;19, 2009, the Federal Reserve further reduced the amount itlent against such collateral. These changes by the Federal Reserve did not have a material impacton the Firm's aggregate funding capacity.The Firm participated in the FDIC's Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the &#147;TLG Program&#148;),which was implemented in late 2008 as a temporary measure to help restore confidence in thefinancial system. This program is comprised of two components: the Debt Guarantee Program thatprovided an FDIC guarantee for certain senior unsecured debt issued through October&nbsp;31, 2009, andthe Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the &#147;TAG Program&#148;) that provides unlimited insurance oncertain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. The expiration date of the TAG Program wasextended by six months, from December&nbsp;31, 2009, to June&nbsp;30, 2010, to provide continued support tothose institutions most affected by the recent financial crisis and to phase out&nbsp; Table of Contentsthe program in anorderly manner. On October&nbsp;22, 2009, the Firm notified the FDIC that, as of January&nbsp;1, 2010, itwould no longer participate in the TAG Program. As a result of the Firm's decision to opt out ofthe program, after December&nbsp;31, 2009, funds held in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts willno longer be guaranteed in full, but will be insured up to $250,000 under the FDIC's generaldeposit rules. The insurance amount of $250,000 per depositor is in effect through December&nbsp;31,2013. On January&nbsp;1, 2014, the insurance amount will return to $100,000 per depositor for allaccount categories except Individual Retirement Accounts (&#147;IRAs&#148;) and certain other retirementaccounts, which will remain at $250,000 per depositor.FundingSources of fundsThe deposits held by the RFS, CB, TSS and AM lines of business are generally stable sources offunding for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, total deposits for the Firm were$938.4&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.0 trillion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. A significant portion of theFirm's deposits are retail deposits (38% at December&nbsp;31, 2009), which are less sensitive tointerest rate changes or market volatility and therefore are considered more stable thanmarket-based (i.e., wholesale) liability balances. In addition, through the normal course ofbusiness, the Firm benefits from substantial liability balances originated by RFS, CB, TSS and AM.These franchise-generated liability balances include deposits, as well as deposits that are sweptto on&#150;balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased, and securitiesloaned or sold under repurchase agreements), a significant portion of which are considered to bestable and consistent sources of funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they aregenerated. For further discussions of deposit andliability balance trends, see the discussion of the results for the Firm's business segments andthe Balance sheet analysis on pages 55&#150;73 and 76&#150;78, respectively, of this Annual Report.Additional sources of funding include a variety of unsecured short- and long-term instruments,including federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, time deposits, bank notes, commercialpaper, long-term debt, trust preferred capital debt securities, preferred stock and common stock.Secured sources of funding include securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements,asset-backed securitizations, and borrowings from the Chicago, Pittsburgh and San Francisco FederalHome Loan Banks. The Firm also borrows from the Federal Reserve (including discount-windowborrowings, the Primary Dealer Credit Facility and the Term Auction Facility); however, the Firmdoes not view such borrowings from the Federal Reserve as a primary means of funding.IssuanceFunding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriate global balance ofunsecured and secured funding at favorable rates. Generating funding from a broad range of sourcesin a variety of geographic locations enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on anyone source. During 2009 and 2008, the Firm issued $19.7&nbsp;billion and $20.8&nbsp;billion, respectively, ofFDIC-guaranteed long-term debt under the TLG Program, which became effective in October&nbsp;2008. In2009 the Firm also issued non-FDIC guaranteed debt of $16.1&nbsp;billion, including $11.0&nbsp;billion ofsenior notes and $2.5&nbsp;billion of trust preferred capital debt securities, in the U.S. market, and$2.6&nbsp;billion of senior notes in the European markets. In 2008 the Firm issued non-FDIC guaranteeddebt of $23.6&nbsp;billion, including $12.2&nbsp;billion of senior notes and $1.8&nbsp;billion of trust preferredcapital debt securities in the U.S. market and $9.6&nbsp;billion of senior notes in non-U.S. markets.Issuing non-FDIC guaranteed debt in the capital markets in 2009 was a prerequisite to redeeming the$25.0&nbsp;billion of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock. In addition, during 2009 and 2008, JPMorgan Chase issued$15.5&nbsp;billion and $28.0&nbsp;billion, respectively, of IB structured notes that are included withinlong-term debt. During 2009 and 2008, $55.7&nbsp;billion and $62.7&nbsp;billion, respectively, of long-termdebt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) matured or was redeemed, including $27.2billion and $35.8&nbsp;billion, respectively, of IB structured notes; the maturities or redemptions in2009 offset the issuances during the period. During 2009 and 2008, the Firm also securitized $26.5billion and $21.4&nbsp;billion, respectively, of credit card loans.Replacement capital covenantsIn connection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferred capital debt securities and itsnoncumulative perpetual preferred stock, the Firm has entered into Replacement Capital Covenants(&#147;RCCs&#148;). These RCCs grant certain rights to the holders of &#147;covered debt,&#148; as defined in the RCCs,that prohibit the repayment, redemption or purchase of such trust preferred capital debt securitiesand noncumulative perpetual preferred stock except, with limited exceptions, to the extent thatJPMorgan Chase has received, in each such case, specified amounts of proceeds from the sale ofcertain qualifying securities. Currently, the Firm's covered debt is its 5.875% Junior SubordinatedDeferrable Interest Debentures, Series&nbsp;O, due in 2035. For more information regarding thesecovenants, reference is made to the respective RCCs (including any supplements thereto) enteredinto by the Firm in relation to such trust preferred capital debt securities and noncumulativeperpetual preferred stock, which are available in filings made by the Firm with the U.S. Securitiesand Exchange Commission.Cash flowsFor the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, cash and due from banks decreased $689million, $13.2&nbsp;billion and $268&nbsp;million, respectively. The following discussion highlights themajor activities and transactions that affected JPMorgan Chase's cash flows during 2009, 2008 and2007.Cash flows from operating activitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilities support the Firm's capital markets and lendingactivities, including the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale.Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to theamount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven activities, market conditions &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisand trading strategies. Management believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances andthe Firm's ability to generate cash through short- and long-term borrowings are sufficient to fundthe Firm's operating liquidity needs.For the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was$121.9&nbsp;billion and $23.1&nbsp;billion, respectively, while for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2007, netcash used in operating activities was $110.6&nbsp;billion. In 2009, the net decline in trading assetsand liabilities was affected by balance sheet management activities and the impact of thechallenging capital markets environment that existed at December&nbsp;31, 2008, and continued into thefirst half of 2009. In 2009 and 2008, net cash generated from operating activities was higher thannet income, largely as a result of adjustments for non-cash items such as the provision for creditlosses. In addition, for 2009 and 2008 proceeds from sales, securitizations and paydowns of loansoriginated or purchased with an initial intent to sell were higher than cash used to acquire suchloans, but the cash flows from these loan activities remained at reduced levels as a result of thelower activity in these markets since the second half of 2007.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2007, the net cash used in trading activities reflected a moreactive capital markets environment, largely from client-driven market-making activities. Alsoduring 2007, cash used to originate or purchase loans held-for-sale was higher than proceeds fromsales, securitizations and paydowns of such loans, although these activities were affected by asignificant deterioration in liquidity in the second half of 2007.Cash flows from investing activitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantly include originating loans to be held for investment,the AFS securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning assets. For the year endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, net cash of $29.4&nbsp;billion was provided by investing activities, primarily from:a decrease in deposits with banks reflecting lower demand for inter-bank lending and lower depositswith the Federal Reserve Bank relative to the elevated levels at the end of 2008; a net decrease inthe loan portfolio across most businesses, driven by continued lower customer demand and loan salesin the wholesale businesses, lower charge volume on credit cards, slightly higher credit cardsecuritizations, and paydowns; and the maturity of all asset-backed commercial paper issued bymoney market mutual funds in connection with the AML facility of the Federal Reserve Bank ofBoston. Largely offsetting these cash proceeds were net purchases of AFS securities associated withthe Firm's management of interest rate risk and investment of cash resulting from an excess fundingposition.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, net cash of $283.7&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities,primarily for: increased deposits with banks as the result of the availability of excess cash forshort-term investment opportunities through interbank lending, and reserve balances held by theFederal Reserve (which became an investing activity in 2008, reflecting a policy change of theFederal Reserve to pay interest to depository institutions on reserve balances);net purchases ofinvestment securities in the AFS portfolio to manage the Firm's exposure to interest ratemovements; net additionsto the wholesale loan portfolio from organic growth in CB; additions to the consumer prime mortgageportfolio as a result of the decision to retain, rather than sell, new originations ofnonconforming prime mortgage loans; an increase in securities purchased under resale agreementsreflecting growth in demand from clients for liquidity; and net purchases of asset-backedcommercial paper from money market mutual funds in connection with the AML facility of the FederalReserve Bank of Boston. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds from loan sales andsecuritization activities as well as net cash received from acquisitions and the sale of aninvestment. Additionally, in June&nbsp;2008, in connection with the Bear Stearns merger, the Firm soldassets acquired from Bear Stearns to the FRBNY and received cash proceeds of $28.85&nbsp;billion.For the year ended December&nbsp;31,2007, net cash of $74.2&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities,primarily for: funding purchases in the AFS securities portfolio to manage the Firm's exposure tointerest rate movements; net additions to the wholesale retained loan portfolios in IB, CB and AM,mainly as a result of business growth; a net increase in the consumer retained loan portfolio,primarily reflecting growth in RFS in home equity loans and net additions to the RFS's subprimemortgage loans portfolio (which was affected by management's decision in the third quarter toretain (rather than sell) new subprime mortgages); growth in prime mortgage loans originated by RFSand AM that were not eligible to be sold to U.S. government agencies or U.S. government-sponsoredenterprises; and increases in securities purchased under resale agreements as a result of a higherlevel of cash that was available for short-term investment opportunities in connection with theFirm's efforts to build liquidity. These net uses of cash were partially offset by cash proceedsreceived from sales and maturities of AFS securities and from credit card, residential mortgage,student and wholesale loan sales and securitization activities.Cash flows from financing activitiesThe Firm's financing activities primarily reflect cash flows related to raising customer deposits,and issuing long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities) as well as preferredand common stock. In 2009, net cash used in financing activities was $152.2&nbsp;billion; this reflecteda decline in wholesale deposits, predominantly in TSS, driven by the continued normalization ofwholesale deposit levels resulting from the mitigation of credit concerns, compared with theheightened market volatility and credit concerns in the latter part of 2008; a decline in otherborrowings, due to the absence of borrowings from the Federal Reserve under the Term AuctionFacility program; net repayments of advances from Federal Home Loan Banks and the maturity of thenonrecourse advances under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility; the June&nbsp;17, 2009,repayment in full of the $25.0&nbsp;billion principal amount of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock issued to theU.S. Treasury; and the payment of cash dividends on common and preferred stock. Cash was also usedfor the net&nbsp; Table of Contentsrepayment of long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securities, as issuancesof FDIC-guaranteed debt and non-FDIC guaranteed debt in both the U.S. and European markets weremore than offset by redemptions. Cash proceeds resulted from an increase in securities loaned orsold under repurchase agreements, partly attributable to favorable pricing and to financing theincreased size of the Firm's AFS securities portfolio; and the issuance of $5.8&nbsp;billion of commonstock. There were no repurchases in the open market of common stock or the warrants during 2009.In 2008, net cash provided by financing activities was $247.8&nbsp;billion due to: growth in wholesaledeposits, in particular, interest- and noninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by both new andexisting clients, and due tothe deposit inflows related to the heightened volatility and credit concerns affecting the globalmarkets that began in the third quarter of 2008), as well as increases in AM and CB (due to organicgrowth); proceeds of $25.0&nbsp;billion from the issuance of preferred stock and the Warrant to the U.S.Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program; additional issuances of common stock and preferredstock used for general corporate purposes; an increase in other borrowings due to nonrecoursesecured advances under the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston AML Facility to fund the purchase ofasset-backed commercial paper from money market mutual funds; increases in federal funds purchasedand securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements in connection with higher client demandfor liquidity and to finance growth in the Firm's AFS securities portfolio; and a net increase inlong-term debt due to a combination of non-FDIC guaranteed debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities issued prior to December&nbsp;4, 2008, and the issuance of $20.8&nbsp;billion of FDIC-guaranteedlong-term debt issued during the fourth quarter of 2008. The fourth-quarter FDIC-guaranteed debtissuance was offset partially by maturities of non-FDIC guaranteed long-term debt during the sameperiod. The increase in long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities)was usedprimarily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the parent holding company and to buildliquidity. Cash was also used to pay dividends on common and preferred stock. The Firm did notrepurchase any shares of its common stock during 2008.In 2007, net cash provided by financing activities was $184.1&nbsp;billion due to a net increase inwholesale deposits from growth in business volumes, in particular, interest-bearing deposits atTSS, AM and CB; net issuances of long-term debt (including trust preferred capital debt securities)primarily to fund certain illiquid assets held by the parent holding company and build liquidity,and by IB from client-driven structured notes transactions; and growth in commercial paperissuances and other borrowed funds due to growth in the volume of liability balances in sweepaccounts in TSS and CB, and to fund trading positions and to further build liquidity. Cash was usedto repurchase common stock and pay dividends on common stock.Credit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in theseratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the costof funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number ofinvestors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, the Firm's fundingrequirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments may be adversely affected. For additionalinformation on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, andon derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on pages 78&#150;79 and Ratingsprofile of derivative receivables marked to market (&#147;MTM&#148;),and Note 5 on page 103 and pages 167&#150;175, respectively, of this Annual Report.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream,strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources,and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures.The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm's significant bankingsubsidiaries as of January&nbsp;15, 2010, were as follows.Ratings actions affecting the FirmOn March&nbsp;4, 2009, Moody's revised the outlook on the Firm to negative from stable. This action wasthe result of Moody's view that the Firm's ability to generate capital would be adversely affectedby higher credit costs due to the global recession. The rating action by Moody's in the firstquarter of 2009 did not have a material impact on the cost or availability of the Firm's funding.At December&nbsp;31, 2009, Moody's outlook remained negative.Ratings from S&P and Fitch on JPMorgan Chase and its principal bank subsidiaries remained unchangedat December&nbsp;31, 2009, from December&nbsp;31, 2008. At December&nbsp;31, 2009, S&P's outlook remainednegative, while Fitch's outlook remained stable.Following the Firm's earnings release on January&nbsp;15, 2010, S&P and Moody's announced that theirratings on the Firm remained unchanged.If the Firm's senior long-term debt ratings were downgraded by one additional notch, the Firmbelieves the incremental cost of funds or loss of funding would be manageable, within the contextof current market conditions and the Firm's liquidity resources. JPMorgan Chase's unsecured debtdoes not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities orchanges in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings orrequire additional collateral, based on unfavorable&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysischanges in the Firm's credit ratings, financialratios, earnings, or stock price.On February&nbsp;24, 2009, S&P lowered the ratings on the trust preferred capital debt securities andother hybrid securities of 45 U.S. financial institutions, including those of JPMorgan Chase & Co.The Firm's ratings on trust preferred capital debt and noncumulative perpetual preferred securitieswere lowered from A- to BBB&#043;. This action was the result of S&P's general view that there is anincreased likelihood of issuers suspending interest and dividend payments in the currentenvironment. This action by S&P did not have a material impact on the cost or availability of theFirm's funding.On December&nbsp;22, 2009, Moody's lowered the ratings on certain of the Firm's hybrid securities. Thedowngrades were consistent with Moody's revised guidelines for rating hybrid securities andsubordinated debt. The ratings of junior subordinated debt securities with cumulative deferralfeatures were lowered to A2 from A1, while those of cumulative preferred securities were downgradedto A3 from A2, and ratings for non-cumulative preferred securities were lowered to Baa1 from A2.On January&nbsp;29, 2010, Fitch downgraded 592 hybrid capital instruments issued by banks and othernon-bank financial institutions, including those issued by the Firm. This action was in line withFitch's revised hybrid ratings methodology. The Firm's trust preferred debt and hybrid preferredsecurities were downgraded by one notch to A.Ratings actions affecting Firm-sponsored securitization trustsIn 2009, in light of increasing levels of losses in the Firm-sponsored securitization trusts due tothe then worsening economic environment, S&P, Moody's and Fitch took various ratings actions withrespect to the securities issued by the Firm's credit card securitization trusts, including theChase Issuance Trust, Chase Credit Card Master Trust, Washington Mutual Master Note Trust and SCORECredit Card Trust, including placing the ratings of certain securities of such Trusts on negativecredit watch or review for possible downgrade, and, in a few circumstances, downgrading the ratingsof some of the securities.On May&nbsp;12, 2009, the Firm took certain actions to increase the credit enhancement underlying thecredit card asset-backed securities of the Chase Issuance Trust. As a result of these actions, theratings of all asset-backed credit card securities of the Chase Issuance Trust were affirmed by thecredit rating agencies, except for a negative rating outlook by Fitch which remains, as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, on the subordinated securities of the Chase Issuance Trust.On May&nbsp;19, 2009, the Firm removed from the Washington Mutual Master Note Trust all remaining creditcard receivables that had been originated by Washington Mutual. As a result of this action, theratings of all asset-backed credit card securities of the Washington Mutual Master Note Trust wereraised or affirmed by the credit rating agencies, with the exception that the senior securities ofthe Washington Mutual Master Note Trust were downgraded by S&P on December&nbsp;23, 2009. S&P's actionwas the result of their consideration of a linkage between the ratings of the securities ofWashington Mutual Master Note Trust and the Firm's own ratings as a result of the consolidationonto the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheet of the assets and liabilities of the Washington MutualMaster Note Trust following the Firm's actions on May&nbsp;19, 2009 (please refer to page 200 under Note15 of this Annual Report).The Firm did not take any actions to increase the credit enhancement underlying securitizationsissued by the Chase Credit Card Master Trust and the SCORE Credit Card Trust during 2009. Certainmezzanine securities and subordinated securities of the Chase Credit Card Master Trust weredowngraded by S&P and Moody's on August&nbsp;6, 2009, and July&nbsp;10, 2009, respectively. The senior andsubordinated securities of the SCORE Credit Card Trust were placed on review for possible downgradeby Moody's on January&nbsp;20, 2010.The Firm believes the ratings actions described above did not have a material impact on the Firm'sliquidity and ability to access the asset-backed securitization market.With the exception of the Washington Mutual Master Note Trust as described above, the ratings onthe Firm's asset-backed securities programs are currently independent of the Firm's own ratings.However, no assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will not in the future considerthere being a linkage between the ratings of the Firm's asset-backed securities programs and theFirm's own ratings as a result of accounting guidance for QSPEs and VIEs that became effectiveJanuary&nbsp;1, 2010. For a further discussion of the new FASB guidance, see &#147;Accounting and reportingdevelopments&#148; and Note 16 on pages 132&#150;134 and206&#150;214, respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. The Firm providescredit (for example, through loans, lending-related commitments, guarantees and derivatives) to avariety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to the individual consumer.For the wholesale business, credit risk management includes the distribution of the Firm'ssyndicated loan originations into the marketplace with exposure held in the retained portfolioaveraging less than 10%. Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM are generally retained on thebalance sheet. With regard to the consumer credit market, the Firm focuses on creating a portfoliothat is diversified from both a product and a geographic perspective. Loss mitigation strategiesare being employed for all home lending portfolios. These strategies include rate reductions,forbearance and other actions intended to minimize economic loss and avoid foreclosure. In themortgage business, originated loans are either retained in the mortgage portfolio or securitizedand sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer and implemented within the lines ofbusiness. The Firm's credit risk management governance consists of the following functions:Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending and capital markets activities. Credit riskmanagement works in partnership with the business segments in identifying and aggregating exposuresacross all lines of business.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on severalfactors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer installment versus wholesale loan), riskmeasurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and credit bureauscore versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versuscentrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the amount of exposureshould the obligor or the counterparty default, the probability of default and the loss severitygiven a default event. Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimatesboth probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios. Probable losses,reflected in the provision for credit losses, are based primarily upon statistical estimates ofcredit losses as a result of obligor or counterparty default. However, probable losses are not thesole indicators of risk. If losses were entirely predictable, the probable loss rate could befactored into pricing and covered as a normal and recurring cost of doing business. Unexpectedlosses, reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital, represent the potential volatility ofactual losses relative to the probable level of losses. Risk measurement for the wholesaleportfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessedprimarily on a credit-scored basis.Risk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated (generally held in IB, CB, TSS and AM), probable and unexpected loss calculations are based on estimates of probability of default and lossgiven default. Probability of default is the expected default calculated on an obligor basis. Lossgiven default is an estimate of losses given a default event and takes into considerationcollateral and structural support for each credit facility. Calculations and assumptions are basedon management information systems and methodologies which are under continual review. Risk ratingsare assigned to differentiate risk within the portfolio and are reviewed on an ongoing basis byCredit Risk Management and revised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers' current financialposition, risk profiles and the related collateral and structural positions.Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable loss is based on astatistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of time. Probable losses areestimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools toproject credit risks and establish underwriting standards. In addition, common measures of creditquality derived from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses. Other riskcharacteristics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes in originationsources, portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlying credit practices, including charge-offpolicies. These analyses are applied to the Firm's current portfolios in order to estimatedelinquencies and severity of losses, which determine the amount of probable losses. These factorsand analyses are updated at least on a quarterly basis or more frequently as market conditionsdictate.Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of the approval and decision-making process of extending credit, and to ensure credit risks areassessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at both thetransaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines formanagement of distressed exposure. Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly on both anaggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. Management of the Firm's wholesaleexposure is accomplished through a number of &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysismeans including loan syndication and participations,loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of master netting agreements and collateraland other risk-reduction techniques, which are further discussed in the following risk sections.For consumer credit risk, the key focus items are trends and concentrations at the portfolio level,where potential problems can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolioguidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business expectations andindustry benchmarks.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit qualityforecasts, concentrations levels and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior creditrisk management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product and geographicconcentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses isreviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting andgovernance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, anddiscussed with, senior management, as mentioned on page 86 of this Annual Report.2009 Credit risk overviewDuring 2009, the credit environment experienced further deterioration compared with 2008, resultingin increased defaults, downgrades and reduced liquidity. In the first part of the year, the paceof deterioration increased, adversely affecting many financial institutions and impacting the functioning of credit markets, which remained weak. The pace ofdeterioration also gave rise to a high level of uncertainty regarding the ultimate extent ofthe downturn. The Firm's credit portfolio was affected by these market conditions and experiencedcontinued deteriorating credit quality, especially in the first part of the year, generallyconsistent with the market.For the wholesale portfolio, criticized assets, nonperforming assets and charge-offs increasedsignificantly from 2008, reflecting continued weakness in the portfolio, particularly in commercialreal estate. In the latter part of the year, there were some positive indicators, for example, loanorigination activity and market liquidity improved and credit spreads tightened. The wholesalebusinesses have remained focused on actively managing the portfolio, including ongoing, in-depthreviews of credit quality and industry, product and client concentrations. Underwriting standardsacross all areas of lending have remained under review and strengthened where appropriate,consistent with evolving market conditions and the Firm's risk management activities. In light ofthe current market conditions, the wholesale allowance for loan loss coverage ratio has beenstrengthened to 3.57% from 2.64% at the end of 2008.The consumer portfolio credit performance continued to be negatively affected by the economicenvironment of 2009. Higher unemployment and weaker overall economic conditions have led to asignificant increase in the number of loans charged off, while continued weak housing prices havedriven a significant increase in the severity of loss recognized on real estate loans thatdefaulted. During 2009, the Firm took proactive action to assist homeowners most in need offinancial assistance, including participation in the U.S. Treasury Making Home Affordable (&#147;MHA&#148;)programs, which are designed to assist eligible homeowners in a number of ways, one of which is bymodifying the terms of their mortgages. The MHA programs and the Firm's other loss-mitigationprograms for financially troubled borrowers generally represent various concessions, such as termextensions, rate reductions and deferral of principal payments that would have been required underthe terms of the original agreement. The Firm's loss-mitigation programs are intended to minimizeeconomic loss to the Firm, while providing alternatives to foreclosure.More detailed discussion of thedomestic consumer credit environmentcan be found in Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 106&#150;115of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2009and 2008. Total credit exposure at December&nbsp;31, 2009, decreased by $322.6&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31,2008, reflecting decreases of $170.5&nbsp;billion in the wholesale portfolio and $152.1&nbsp;billion in theconsumer portfolio. During 2009, lending-related commitments decreased by $130.3&nbsp;billion, managedloans decreased by $112.4&nbsp;billion and derivative receivables decreased by $82.4&nbsp;billion.While overall portfolio exposure declined, the Firm provided more than $600&nbsp;billion in new loansand lines of credit to consumer and wholesale clients in 2009, including individuals, smallbusinesses, large corporations, not-for-profit organizations, U.S. states and municipalities, andother financial institutions.In the table below, reported loans include loans retained; loans held-for-sale (which arecarried at the lower of cost or fair value, with changes in value recorded in noninterest revenue);and loans accounted for at fair value. Loans retained are presented net of unearned income,unamortized discounts and premiums, and net deferred loan costs; for additional information, seeNote 13 on pages 192&#150;196 of this Annual Report. Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans andassets acquired in satisfaction of debt (primarily real estate owned). Nonaccrual loans are thosefor which the accrual of interest has been suspended in accordance with the Firm's accountingpolicies, which are described in Note 13 on pages 192&#150;196 of this Annual Report. Average retainedloan balances are used for the net charge-off rate calculations.Total credit portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisWHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AM) decreased by $170.5billion from December&nbsp;31, 2008. The $170.5&nbsp;billion decrease was primarily driven by decreases of$82.4&nbsp;billion of derivative receivables, $57.9&nbsp;billion of loans and $32.7&nbsp;billion oflending-related commitments. The decrease in derivative receivableswas primarily related totightening credit spreads, volatile foreign exchange rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps.Loans and lending-related commitments decreased across most wholesale lines of business, as lowercustomer demand continued to affect the level of lending activity.Wholesale&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesaleportfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal riskratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; maturity and ratings profileWholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, with particularattention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Customer receivablesrepresenting primarily margin loans to prime and retail brokerage clients of $15.7&nbsp;billion areincluded in the table. These margin loans are generally fully collateralized by cash or highlyliquid securities to satisfy daily minimum collateral requirements. Exposures deemed criticizedgenerally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of &#147;CCC&#043;&#148;/&#148;Caa1&#148; and lower, as defined byS&P and Moody's. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale andloans at fair value, increased to $33.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, from $26.0&nbsp;billion atyear-end 2008. The increase was primarily related to downgrades within the portfolio.During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Firm revised certain industry classifications to betterreflect risk correlations and enhance the Firm's management of industry risk. Below are summariesof the top 25 industry exposures as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008. For additional information onindustry concentrations, see Note 32 on pages 234&#150;235 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsWholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry exposures&nbsp; Table of ContentsPresented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significantexposure, as well as industries the Firm continues to monitor because of actual or potential creditconcerns. For additional information, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents additional information on the wholesale real estate industry for theperiods ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.LoansThe following table presents wholesale loans and nonperforming assets by business segment as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.&nbsp; Table of ContentsIn the normal course of business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of customers,from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals.Retained wholesale loans were $200.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with $248.1&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008. The $48.0&nbsp;billion decrease, across most wholesale lines of business, reflectedlower customer demand. Loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value relate primarily to syndicatedloans and loans transferred from the retained portfolio. Held-for-sale loans and loans carried atfair value were $4.1&nbsp;billion and $14.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Thedecreases in both held-for-sale loans and loans at fair value reflected sales, reduced carryingvalues and lower volumes in the syndication market.The Firm actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan and commitment sales. During 2009and 2008, the Firm sold $3.9&nbsp;billion of loans and commitments in each year, recognizing losses of$38&nbsp;million and $41&nbsp;million in each period, respectively. These results include gains or losses onsales of nonperforming loans, if any, as discussed on page 102 of this Annual Report. Theseactivities are not related to the Firm's securitization activities, which are undertaken forliquidity and balance sheet&#150;management purposes. For further discussion of securitization activity,see Liquidity Risk Management and Note 15 on pages 88&#150;92 and 198&#150;205, respectively, of this AnnualReport.Nonperforming wholesale loans were $6.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, an increase of $4.5&nbsp;billionfrom December&nbsp;31, 2008, reflecting continued deterioration in the credit environment, predominantlyrelated to loans in the real estate, leisure and banks and finance companies industries. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, wholesale loans restructured as part of a troubled debt restructuring wereapproximately $1.1&nbsp;billion.The following table presents the geographic distribution of wholesale loans andnonperforming loans as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008. Thegeographic distribution of the wholesale portfolio is determined based predominantly on thedomicile of the borrower.Loans and nonperforming loans, U.S. and Non-U.S.Wholesale&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the change in the nonperforming loan portfolio for the years endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.Nonperforming loan activityWholesaleThe following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as gross charge-offs lessrecoveries, for the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008. The amounts in the table below do notinclude gains from sales of nonperforming loans.Net charge-offsWholesaleDerivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments to meet the needs ofcustomers; to generate revenue through trading activities; to manage exposure to fluctuations ininterest rates, currencies and other markets; and to manage the Firm's credit exposure. For furtherdiscussion of these contracts, see Note 5 and Note 32 on pages 167&#150;175 and 234&#150;235 of this AnnualReport.The following tables summarize the net derivative receivables MTM for the periods presented.Derivative receivables marked to marketThe amount of derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of $80.2billion and $162.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, are the amount of the MTMor fair value of the derivativecontracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master nettingagreements, cash collateral held by the Firm and CVA. These amounts on the Consolidated BalanceSheets represent the cost to the Firm to replace the contracts at current market rates should thecounterparty default. However, in management's view, the appropriate measure of current credit riskshould also reflect additional liquid securities held as collateral by the Firm of $15.5&nbsp;billionand $19.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, resulting in total exposure, net ofall collateral, of $64.7&nbsp;billion and $142.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.The decrease of $78.1&nbsp;billion in derivative receivables MTM, net of the above mentioned collateral,from December&nbsp;31, 2008, was primarily related to tightening credit spreads, volatile foreignexchange rates and rising rates on interest rate swaps.The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions,as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral thatthe Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Though thiscollateral does not reduce the balances noted in the table above, it is available as securityagainst potential exposure that could arise should the MTM of the client's derivative transactionsmove in the Firm's favor. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, the Firm held $16.9&nbsp;billion and $22.2billion of this additional collateral, respectively. The derivative receivables MTM, net of all collateral, also do not include other credit enhancements,such as letters of credit.While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;),and Average exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, whereapplicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5% confidencelevel. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intendedto be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The measurement is done by equating the unexpectedloss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the loss volatilityand the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takesinto consideration only the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure ofpotential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval ofderivative transactions.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables at futuretime periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of thederivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculatecredit capital and the CVA, as further described below. AVG exposure was $49.0&nbsp;billion and $83.7billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared with derivative receivables MTM, netof all collateral, of $64.7&nbsp;billion and $142.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflectthe credit quality of counterparties.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and thecounterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. Theprimary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changesin the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential tocontrolling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm takes intoconsideration the potential for correlation between the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and thecounterparty's credit quality within the credit approval process. The Firm risk manages exposure tochanges in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreignexchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions.The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next ten years as calculated by theDRE and AVG metrics.The two measures generally show declining exposure after the first year, if nonew trades were added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresThe following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's derivative receivables MTM,net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated.Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTMThe Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigatecounterparty credit risk in derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactionssubject to collateral agreements &#150; excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typicallycovered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity &#150; was 89% as of December&nbsp;31, 2009,largely unchanged from 88% at December&nbsp;31, 2008.The Firm posted $56.7&nbsp;billion and $99.1&nbsp;billion of collateral atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterpartyand/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in the respective credit ratings of their legalentities, to post collateral for the benefit of the other party. At December&nbsp;31, 2009, the impactof a single-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase & Co., and its subsidiaries,primarily JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would have required $1.2&nbsp;billion and $3.6&nbsp;billion,respectively, of additional collateral to be posted by the Firm. Certain derivative contracts alsoprovide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade to a specified rating of eitherthe Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.Credit derivatives Credit derivatives are financial contracts that isolate credit risk from anunderlying instrument (such as a loan or security) and transfers that risk from one party (the buyerof credit protection) to another (the seller of credit protection). The Firm is both a purchaserand seller of credit protection. As a purchaser of credit protection, the Firm has risk that thecounterparty providing the credit protectionwill default. As a seller of credit protection, theFirm has risk that the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject to a creditevent. Of the Firm's $80.2&nbsp;billion of total derivative receivables MTM at December&nbsp;31, 2009, $18.8billion, or 23%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit of liquid securitiescollateral.One type of credit derivatives the Firm enters into with counterparties are credit default swaps(&#147;CDS&#148;). For further detailed discussion of these and other types of credit derivatives, see Note 5on pages 167&#150;175 of this Annual Report. The large majority of CDS are subject to collateralarrangements to protect the Firm from counterparty credit risk. In 2009, the frequency and size ofdefaults for both trading counterparties and the underlying debt referenced in credit derivativeswere well above historical norms. The use of collateral to settle against defaulting counterpartiesgenerally performed as designed in significantly mitigating the Firm's exposure to thesecounterparties.The Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-makerin the dealer/client business to meet the needs of customers; and second, in order to mitigate theFirm's own credit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables and traditionalcommercial credit lending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments).&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protection purchasedand sold as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, distinguishing between dealer/client activity and creditportfolio activity.Dealer/client businessWithin the dealer/client business, the Firm actively manages credit derivatives by buying andselling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, according to client demandfor credit risk protection on the underlying reference instruments. Protection may be bought orsold by the Firm on single reference debt instruments (&#147;single-name&#148; credit derivatives),portfolios of referenced instruments (&#147;portfolio&#148; credit derivatives) or quoted indices (&#147;indexed&#148;credit derivatives). The risk positions are largely matched as the Firm's exposure to a givenreference entity under a contract to sell protection to a counterparty may be offset partially, orentirely, with a contract to purchase protection from another counterparty on the same underlyinginstrument. Any residual default exposure and spread risk is actively managed by the Firm's varioustrading desks.At December&nbsp;31, 2009, the total notional amount of protection purchased and sold decreased by $2.4trillion from year-end 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of industry efforts toreduce offsetting trade activity.Credit portfolio activitiesManagement of the Firm's wholesale exposure is accomplished through a number of means includingloan syndication and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, use of masternetting agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques. The Firm also manages itswholesale credit exposure by purchasing protection through single-name and portfolio creditderivatives to manage the credit risk associated with loans, lending-related commitments andderivative receivables. Gains or losses on the credit derivatives are expected to offset theunrealized increase or decrease in credit risk on the loans, lending-related commitments orderivative receivables. This activity does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balancesheet or the level of reported off&#150;balance sheet commitments, although it does provide the Firmwith credit risk protection. The Firm also diversifies its exposures by selling credit protection,which increases exposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-relatedexposure; however, this activity is not material to the Firm's overall credit exposure.Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivativesThe credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for credit portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, withgains and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans andlending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Thisasymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the creditderivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is notrepresentative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall creditexposure. The MTM related to the Firm's credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure, aswell as the MTM related to the CVA (which reflects the credit quality of derivatives counterpartyexposure) are included in the gains and losses realized on credit derivatives disclosed in thetable below. These results can vary from period to period due to market conditions that affectspecific positions in the portfolio.&nbsp; Table of ContentsLending-related commitmentsJPMorgan Chase uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments and guarantees,to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instrumentsrepresents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on thesecommitments or the Firm fulfills its obligation under these guarantees, and the counterpartiessubsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.Wholesale lending-related commitments were $347.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with$379.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008, reflecting lower customer demand. In the Firm's view, thetotal contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments is not representative ofthe Firm's actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of creditrisk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis forallocating credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a &#147;loan-equivalent&#148;amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or othercontingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, to becomedrawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. The loan-equivalent amounts of the Firm'slending-related commitments were $179.8&nbsp;billion and $204.3&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and2008, respectively.Emerging markets country exposureThe Firm has a comprehensive internal process for measuring and managing exposures to emergingmarkets countries. There is no common definition of emerging markets, but the Firm generallyincludes in its definition those countries whose sovereign debt ratings are equivalent to &#147;A&#043;&#148; orlower. Exposures to a country include all credit-related lending, trading and investmentactivities, whether cross-border or locally funded. In addition to monitoring country exposures,the Firm uses stress tests to measure and manage the risk of extreme loss associated with sovereigncrises.The table below presents the Firm's exposure, by country, to the top ten emerging markets. Theselection of countries is based solely on the Firm's largest total exposures by country and not theFirm's view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Exposure is reported based onthe country where the assets of the obligor, counterparty or guarantor are located. Exposureamounts are adjusted for collateral and for credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees and letters ofcredit) provided by third parties; outstandings supported by a guarantor located outside thecountry or backed by collateral held outside the country are assigned to the country of theenhancement provider. In addition, the effect of credit derivative hedges and other short credit orequity trading positions are reflected in the table below. Total exposure includes exposure to bothgovernment and private-sector entities in a country.Top 10 emerging markets country exposure&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages, homeequity loans, credit cards, auto loans, student loans and business banking loans, with a primaryfocus on serving the prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home equity loansand lines of credit secured by junior liens, mortgage loans with interest-only payment options topredominantly prime borrowers, as well as certain payment-option loans acquired from WashingtonMutual that may result in negative amortization.A substantial portion of the consumer loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction wereidentified as credit-impaired based on an analysis of high-risk characteristics, including producttype, loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores and delinquency status. These purchased credit-impairedloans are accounted for on a pool basis, and the pools are considered to be performing. At the timeof the acquisition, these loans were recorded at fair value, including an estimate of losses thatwere expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the loan pools. Therefore, noallowance for loan losses was recorded for these loans as of the transaction date. In 2009,management concluded that it was probable that higher expected future credit losses for certainpools of the purchased credit-impaired portfolio would result in a decrease in expected future cashflows for these pools. As a result, an allowance for loan losses of $1.6&nbsp;billion was established.The credit performance of the consumer portfolio across the entire product spectrum continues to benegatively affected by the economic environment. Higher unemployment and weaker overall economicconditions have led to a significant increase in the number of loans charged off, while continuedweak housing prices have driven a significant increase in the severity of loss recognized on realestate loans that default. Delinquencies and nonperforming loans continued to increase in 2009. Theincreases in these credit quality metrics were due, in part, to foreclosure moratorium programs,which ended in early 2009. These moratoriums halted stages of the foreclosure process while theU.S. Treasury developed its homeowner assistance program (i.e., MHA) and the Firmenhanced itsforeclosure-prevention programs. Due to a high volume of foreclosures after the moratoriums,processing timelines for foreclosures were elongated by approximately 100&nbsp;days. Losses related tothese loans continued to be recognized in accordance with the Firm's normal charge-off practices,but some delinquent loans that would have otherwise been foreclosed upon remain in the mortgage andhome equity loan portfolios. Additional deterioration in the overall economic environment,including continued deterioration in the labor and residential real estate markets, could causedelinquencies and losses to increase beyond the Firm's current expectations.Since mid-2007, the Firm has taken actions to reduce risk exposure to consumer loans by tighteningboth underwriting and loan qualification standards for both real estate and non-real estate lendingproducts. For residential real estate lending, tighter income verification, more conservativecollateral valuation, reduced loan-to-value maximums, and higher FICO and custom risk scorerequirements are just some of the actions taken to date to mitigate risk related to neworiginations. The Firm believes that these actions have better aligned loan pricing with theunderlying credit risk of the loans. In addition, originations of subprime mortgage loans, statedincome and broker-originated mortgage and home equity loans have been eliminated entirely tofurther reduce originations with high-risk characteristics. The Firm has never originated optionadjustable-rate mortgages. The tightening of underwriting criteria for auto loans has resulted inthe reduction of both extended-term and high loan-to-value financing.As a further action to reduce risk associated with lending-related commitments,the Firm has reduced or canceled certain lines of credit as permitted by law. For example, the Firmmay reduce or close home equity lines of credit when there are significant decreases in the valueof the underlying property or when there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness ofthe borrower. Similarly, certain inactive credit card lines have been closed and a number of activecredit card lines have been reduced.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents managed consumer credit&#150;related information (including RFS, CS andresidential real estate loans reported in the Corporate/Private Equity segment) for the datesindicated. For further information about the Firm's nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies,see Note 13 on pages 192&#150;196 of this Annual Report.Consumer portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents consumer nonperforming assets by business segment as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008.Consumer nonperforming assetsThe following discussion relates to the specific loan product and lending-relatedcategories within the consumer portfolio. Purchased credit-impaired loans are excluded fromindividual loan product discussions and addressed separately below.Home equity: Home equity loans at December&nbsp;31, 2009 were $101.4&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $12.9billion from year-end 2008. The decrease primarily reflected lower loan originations, coupled withloan paydowns and charge-offs. The 2009 provision for credit losses for the home equity portfolioincluded net increases of $2.1&nbsp;billion to the allowance for loan losses, reflecting the impact ofthe weak housing prices and higher unemployment. Senior lien nonperforming loans increased from theprior year due to the weak economic environment, while junior lien nonperforming loans wererelatively unchanged. Net charge-offs have increased from the prior year due to higher frequencyand severity of losses.Mortgage: Mortgage loans at December&nbsp;31, 2009, which include prime mortgages, subprime mortgages,adjustable-rate mortgages (&#147;option ARMs&#148;) acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction andmortgage loans held-for-sale, were $88.3&nbsp;billion, representing an $8.5&nbsp;billion decrease fromyear-end 2008. The decrease is due to lower prime mortgage loans retained in the portfolio andhigher loan charge-offs, as well as the run-off of the subprime and option ARM portfolios. Netcharge-offs have increased from the prior year across all segments of the mortgage portfolio due toboth higher frequency and a significant increase in the severity of losses.Prime mortgages of $67.3&nbsp;billion decreased $5.2&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2008. The 2009provision for credit losses included a net increase of $1.0&nbsp;billion to the allowance for loanlosses reflecting the impact of the weak economic environment. Early-stage delinquencies improvedin the latter part of the year, while late-stage delinquencies have increased as a result of priorforeclosure moratoriums and ongoing trial modification activity, driving an increase innonperforming loans.Subprime mortgages of $12.5&nbsp;billion decreased $2.8&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2008, as a result ofpaydowns, discontinuation of new originations and charge-offs on delinquent loans. The 2009provision for credit losses included a net increase of $625&nbsp;million to the allowance for loanlosses, reflecting the impact of high loss severities driven by declining home prices.Option ARMs of $8.5&nbsp;billion represent less than 5% of non-purchased credit-impaired real estateloans and were $482&nbsp;million lower than December&nbsp;31, 2008, due to run-off of the portfolio. Thisportfolio is primarily comprised of loans with low loan-to-value ratios and high borrower FICOs.Accordingly, the Firm currently expects substantially lower losses on this portfolio when comparedwith the purchased credit-impaired option ARM portfolio. The cumulative amount of unpaid interestadded to the unpaid principal balance due to negative amortization of option ARMs was $78&nbsp;millionat December&nbsp;31, 2009. New originations of option ARMs were discontinued by Washington Mutual prior to the date of JPMorgan Chase'sacquisition of Washington Mutual. The Firm has not originated, and does not originate, option ARMs.&nbsp; Table of ContentsAuto loans: As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, auto loans were $46.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $3.4&nbsp;billionfrom year-end 2008, partially as a result of new originations in connection with the U.S.government's &#147;cash for clunkers&#148; program in the third quarter. Delinquent loans were slightly lowerthan the prior year. Loss severities also decreased as a result of higher used-car pricesnationwide. The auto loan portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits.Credit card: JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis, which includescredit card receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and those receivables sold to investorsthrough securitizations. Managed credit card receivables were $163.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009,a decrease of $26.9&nbsp;billion from year-end 2008, reflecting lower charge volume and a higher levelof charge-offs.The 30-day managed delinquency rate increased to 6.28% at December&nbsp;31, 2009, from 4.97% at December31, 2008, and the managed credit card net charge-off rate increased to 9.33% in 2009, from 5.01% in2008. These increases reflect the current weak economic environment, especially in metropolitanstatistical areas (&#147;MSAs&#148;) experiencing the greatest housing price depreciation and highestunemployment and to the credit performance of loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction.The allowance for loan losses was increased by $2.0&nbsp;billion for 2009, reflecting a provision forloan losses of $2.4&nbsp;billion, partially offset by the reclassification of $298&nbsp;million related to anissuance and retention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust. The managed credit cardportfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S.geographic diversification.Managed credit card receivables, excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio, were $143.8&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with $162.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. The 30-day manageddelinquency rate was 5.52% at December&nbsp;31, 2009, up from 4.36% at December&nbsp;31, 2008; the managedcredit card net charge-off rate, excluding the Washington Mutual portfolio increased to 8.45% in2009 from 4.92% in 2008.Managed credit card receivables of the Washington Mutual portfolio were $19.7&nbsp;billion at December31, 2009, compared with $28.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. Excluding the impact of the purchaseaccounting adjustments related to the Washington Mutual transaction and the consolidation of theWashington Mutual Master Trust, the Washington Mutual portfolio's 30-day managed delinquency ratewas 12.72% at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with 9.14% at December&nbsp;31, 2008, and the 2009 netcharge-off rate was 18.79%.All other: All other loans primarily include business banking loans (which are highlycollateralized loans, often with personal loan guarantees), student loans, and other secured andunsecured consumer loans. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, other loans, including loans held-for-sale, were$33.6&nbsp;billion, down $2.0&nbsp;billion from year-end 2008, primarily as a result of lower businessbanking loans. The 2009 provision for credit losses reflected a net increase of $580&nbsp;million to theallowance for loan losses and an increase in net charge-offs of $826&nbsp;million related to thebusiness banking and student loan portfolios, reflecting the impact of the weak economicenvironment.Purchased credit-impaired: Purchased credit-impaired loans were $81.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009,compared with $88.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008. This portfolio represents loans acquired in theWashington Mutual transaction that were recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition. The fairvalue of these loans included an estimate of credit losses expected to be realized over theremaining lives of the loans, and therefore no allowance for loan losses was recorded for theseloans as of the acquisition date.The Firm regularly updates the amount of expected loan principal and interest cash flows to becollected for these loans. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger therecognition of impairment through the provision for loan losses. Probable and significant increasesin expected loan principal cash flows would first result in the reversal of any allowance for loanlosses. Any remaining increase in the expected principal cash flows would be recognizedprospectively in interest income over the remaining lives of the underlying loans.During 2009, management concluded that it was probable that higher expected principal credit lossesfor the purchased credit-impaired prime mortgage and option ARM pools would result in a decrease inexpected cash flows for these pools. As a result, an allowance for loan losses of $1.1&nbsp;billion and$491&nbsp;million, respectively, was established for these pools. The credit performance of the otherpools has generally been consistent with the estimate of losses at the acquisition date.Accordingly, no impairment for these other pools has been recognized.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisConcentrations of credit risk &#150; consumer loans other than purchased credit-impaired loansFollowing is tabular information and, where appropriate, supplemental discussions about certainconcentrations of credit risk for the Firm's consumer loans, other than purchased credit-impairedloans, including:The following tables present the geographic distribution of managed consumer credit outstandings byproduct as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans.Consumer loans by geographic region &#150; excluding purchased credit-impaired loans&nbsp; Table of Contents &nbsp;The following table presents the geographic distribution of certain residential realestate loans with current estimated combined loan-to-value ratios (&#147;LTVs&#148;) in excess of 100% as of December31, 2009 and 2008, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction. The estimated collateral values used to calculate the currentestimated combined LTV ratios in thefollowing table were derived from a nationally recognized home price index measured at the MSAslevel. Because home price indices can have wide variability and such derived real estate values donot represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values, the resulting ratios are necessarilyimprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.Geographicdistribution of residential real estate loans with current estimatedcombined LTVs &#062; 100%(a) &nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe consumer credit portfolio is geographically diverse. The greatest concentration of loansis in California, which represents 18% of total on-balance sheet consumer loans and 24% of totalresidential real estate loans at December&nbsp;2009, compared to 19% and 25%, respectively, at December2008. Of the total on-balance sheet consumer loan portfolio, $149.4&nbsp;billion, or 43%, areconcentrated in California, New York, Arizona, Florida and Michigan at December&nbsp;2009 compared to$171.1&nbsp;billion, or 43%, at December&nbsp;2008.Declininghome prices have had a significant impact on the estimated collateral value underlying the Firm'sresidential real estate loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with highcurrent estimated combinedLTVratios is greater than the delinquency rate for loans in which the borrower has equity in thecollateral. While a large portion of the loans with current estimatedcombined LTV ratios greaterthan 100%continue to pay and are current, the continued willingness and ability of these borrowers to pay iscurrently uncertain. Nonperforming loans in the residential real estate portfolio totaled $9.6billion, of which 64% was greater than 150&nbsp;days past due at December&nbsp;31, 2009. Of thenonperforming loans that were greater than 150&nbsp;days past due at December&nbsp;31, 2009, approximately36% of the unpaid principal balance of these loans has been charged-down to estimated collateralvalue.Consumer 30&#043; day delinquency information &nbsp;Consumer 30&#043; day delinquencies have increased to 6.23% of the consumer loan portfolio at December31, 2009, in comparison to 4.44% at December&nbsp;31, 2008, driven predominately by an increase inresidential real estate delinquencies which increased $3.4&nbsp;billion. Late stage delinquencies (150&#043;days delinquent) increased significantly reflecting the impacts of trial loan modifications andforeclosure moratorium backlogs. Losses related to these loans continue to be recognized inaccordance with the Firm's normal charge-off practices; as such, these loans are reflected at theirestimated collateral value. Early stage delinquencies (30 &#150; 89&nbsp;days delinquent) in the residentialreal estate portfolios have remained relatively flat year over year.&nbsp; Table of ContentsConcentrations of credit risk &#150; purchased credit-impaired loansThe following tablepresents the current estimated combined LTV ratio, as well as the ratio of the carryingvalue of the underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value, for purchased credit-impaired loans.Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratio of the carrying value to thecurrent estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimatedcombined LTV ratio, which is based on theunpaid principal balance. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios were derived from anationally recognized home price index measured at the MSA level. Because home price indices canhave wide variability, and such derived real estate values do not represent actual appraisedloan-level collateral values, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should thereforebe viewed as estimates.CombinedLTV ratios and ratios of carrying values to current estimated collateral values &#150; purchased credit-impaired &nbsp;Purchased credit-impaired loans in the states of California and Florida represented54% and 11%, respectively, of total purchased credit-impaired loans at December&nbsp;31, 2009, comparedwith 53% and 11%, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2008. Thecurrent estimated combined LTV ratios were 137%and 149% for California and Florida loans, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with 121%and 125%, respectively, at December&nbsp;31, 2008. Loan concentrations in California and Florida, aswell as the continuing decline in housing prices in those states, have contributed negatively toboth the current estimated combined LTV ratio and the ratio of carrying value to current collateral valuefor loans in the purchased credit-impaired portfolio.While the carrying value of the purchased credit-impaired loans is marginally below the currentcollateral value of the loans, the ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent ontheborrowers' behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homeswith negative equity as well as the cost of alternative housing. The purchased credit-impairedportfolio was recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition which included an estimate oflosses expected to be incurred over the estimated remaining lives of the loan pools. During 2009,management concluded that it was probable that higher than expected future principal credit losses would result in a decrease in the expected future cashflows of the prime and option ARM pools.As a result an allowance for loan losses of $1.6 billion wasestablished.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisResidential real estate loan modification activities: During 2009, the Firm reviewed itsresidential real estate portfolio to identify homeowners most in need of assistance, opened newregional counseling centers, hired additional loan counselors, introduced new financingalternatives, proactively reached out to borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications, andcommenced a new process to independently review each loan before moving it into the foreclosureprocess. In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, the U.S. Treasury introduced the MHAprograms, which are designed to assist eligible homeowners in a number of ways, one of which is bymodifying the terms of their mortgages. The Firm is participating in the MHA programs whilecontinuing to expand its other loss-mitigation efforts for financially distressed borrowers who donot qualify for the MHA programs. The MHA programs and the Firm's other loss-mitigation programsfor financially troubled borrowers generally represent various concessions such as term extensions,rate reductions and deferral of principal payments that would have otherwise been required underthe terms of the original agreement. When the Firm modifies home equity lines of credit in troubleddebtrestructurings, future lending commitments related to the modified loans are canceled as partof the terms of the modification. Under all of these programs, borrowers must make at least threepayments under the revised contractual terms during a trial modification period and be successfullyre-underwritten with income verification before their loans can be permanently modified. The Firm'sloss-mitigation programs are intended to minimize economic loss to the Firm, while providingalternatives to foreclosure. The success of these programs is highly dependent on borrowers'ongoing ability and willingness to repay in accordance with the modified terms and could beadversely affected by additional deterioration in the economic environment or shifts in borrowerbehavior. For both the Firm's on-balance sheet loans and loans serviced for others, approximately600,000 mortgage modifications had been offered to borrowers in 2009. Of these, 89,000 haveachieved permanent modification. Substantially all of the loans contractually modified to date weremodified under the Firm's other loss mitigation programs.The following table presentsinformation relating to restructured on-balance sheet residential real estate loans for whichconcessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty as of December&nbsp;31,2009. Modifications of purchased credit-impaired loans continue to be accounted for and reported aspurchased credit-impaired loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm'squarterly assessment of whether a probable and/or significant change in estimated future principalcash flows has occurred. Modifications of loans other than purchased credit-impaired are generallyaccounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings.Restructured residential real estate loans(a) &nbsp;Real estate owned (&#147;REO&#148;): As part of the residential real estate foreclosure process, loansare written down to the fair value of the underlying real estate asset, less costs to sell. Inthose instances where the Firm gains title, ownership and possession of individual properties atthe completion of the foreclosure process, these REO assets are managed for prompt sale anddisposition at the best possible economic value. Any further gains or losses on REO assets arerecorded as part of other income. Operating expense, suchas real estate taxes and maintenance, arecharged to other expense. REO assets declined from year-end 2008 as a result of the foreclosuremoratorium in early 2009 and the subsequent increase in loss mitigation activities. It isanticipated that REO assets will increase over the next several quarters, as loans moving throughthe foreclosure process are expected to increase.&nbsp; Table of ContentsPortfolio transfers: The Firm regularly evaluates market conditions and overall economic returnsand makes an initial determination as to whether new originations will be held-for-investment orsold within the foreseeable future. The Firm also periodically evaluates the expected economicreturns of previously originated loans under prevailing market conditions to determine whethertheir designation as held-for-sale or held-for-investment continues to be appropriate. When theFirm determines that a change in this designation isappropriate, the loans are transferred to theappropriate classification. Since the second half of 2007, all new prime mortgage originations thatcannot be sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises have beendesignated as held-for-investment. Prime mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell areaccounted for at fair value and classified as trading assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (risk-rated) and consumer(primarily scored) loan portfolios and represents management's estimate of probable credit lossesinherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also computes an allowance for wholesalelending-related commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesaleloans. During 2009, the Firm did not make any significant changes to the methodologies or policiesdescribed in the following paragraphs.Wholesale loans are charged off to the allowance for loan losses when it is highly certain that aloss has been realized; this determination considers many factors, including the prioritization ofthe Firm's claim in bankruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of the loan, andvaluation of the borrower's equity. Consumer loans, other than purchased credit-impaired loans, aregenerally charged off to the allowance for loan losses upon reaching specified stages ofdelinquency, in accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council policy. Forexample, credit card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180days past due or within 60&nbsp;days of receiving notification about a specified event (e.g., bankruptcyof the borrower), whichever is earlier. Residential mortgage products are generally charged off toan amount equal to the net realizable value of the underlying collateral, no later than the datethe loan becomes 180&nbsp;days past due. Other consumer products, if collateralized, are generallycharged off to the net realizable value of the underlying collateral at 120&nbsp;days past due.Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment about the effectof matters that are inherently uncertain. Assumptions about unemployment rates, housing prices andoverall economic conditions could have a significant impact on the Firm's determination of loanquality. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfolio, in light of then-prevailing factors, mayresult in significant changes in the allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments infuture periods. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief RiskOfficer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm and discussed with the RiskPolicy and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009,JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorblosses inherent in the portfolio, including those not yet identifiable).For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses, see CriticalAccounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 127&#150;131 and Note 14 on pages 196&#150;198 of this AnnualReport.The allowance for credit losses increased by $8.7&nbsp;billion from the prior year to $32.5&nbsp;billion.Excluding held-for-sale loans,loans carried at fair value, and purchased credit-impaired consumerloans, the allowance for loan losses represented 5.51% of loans at December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with3.62% at December&nbsp;31, 2008.The consumer allowance for loan losses increased by $7.8&nbsp;billion from the prior year, primarily asa result of an increased allowance for loan losses in residential real estate and credit card. Theincrease included additions to the allowance for loan losses of $5.2&nbsp;billion, driven by higherestimated losses for residential mortgage and home equity loans as the weak labor market and weakoverall economic conditions have resulted in increased delinquencies, and continued weak housingprices have driven a significant increase in loss severity. The allowance for loan losses relatedto credit card increased $2.0&nbsp;billion from the prior year, reflecting continued weakness in thecredit environment. The increase reflects an addition of $2.4&nbsp;billion through the provision forloan losses, partially offset by the reclassification of $298&nbsp;million related to the issuance andretention of securities from the Chase Issuance Trust.The wholesale allowance for loan losses increased by $600&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2008,reflecting the effect of a continued weakening credit environment.To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process of extending credit an allowance forlending-related commitments is held for the Firm, which is reported in other liabilities. Theallowance is computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan portfolio,modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown. For a further discussion on theallowance for lending-related commitments, see Note 14 on page 196&#150;198 of this Annual Report.The allowance for lending-related commitments for both wholesale and consumer, which is reported inother liabilities, was $939&nbsp;million and $659&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.The increase reflects downgrades within the wholesale portfolio due to the continued weakeningcredit environment during 2009.The credit ratios in the table below are based on retained loan balances, which exclude loansheld-for-sale and loans accounted for at fair value. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, wholesaleretained loans were $200.1&nbsp;billion and $248.1&nbsp;billion, respectively; and consumer retained loanswere $427.1&nbsp;billion and $480.8&nbsp;billion, respectively. For the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2009 and2008, average wholesale retained loans were $223.0&nbsp;billion and $219.6&nbsp;billion, respectively; andaverage consumer retained loans were $449.2&nbsp;billion and $347.4&nbsp;billion, respectively.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSummary of changes in the allowance for credit losses &nbsp;The following table includes a credit ratio excluding the following items: home lendingpurchased credit-impaired loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction; and credit cardloans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust, which were consolidated onto the Firm's balancesheet at fair value during the second quarter of 2009. The purchased credit-impaired loans wereaccounted for at fair value on the acquisition date, which incorporated management's estimate, asof that date, of credit losses over the remaining life of theportfolio. Accordingly, no allowancefor loan losses was recorded for these loans as of the acquisition date. Subsequent evaluations ofestimated credit deterioration in this portfolio resulted in the recording of an allowance for loanlosses of $1.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2009. For more information on home lending purchasedcredit-impaired loans, see pages 109 and 113 of this Annual Report. For more information on theconsolidation of assets from the Washington Mutual Master Trust, see Note 15 on pages 198&#150;205 ofthis Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe calculation of the allowance for loan losses to total retained loans, excluding both homelending purchased credit-impaired loans and loans held by the Washington Mutual Master Trust, ispresented below.The following table presents the allowance for credit losses by business segment at December31, 2009 and 2008.Provision for credit lossesThe managed provision for credit losses was $38.5&nbsp;billion for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, upby $13.9&nbsp;billion from the prior year. The prior-year included a $1.5&nbsp;billion charge to conformWashington Mutual's allowance for loan losses, which affected both the consumer and wholesaleportfolios. For the purpose of the following analysis, this charge is excluded. Theconsumer-managed provision for credit losses was $34.5&nbsp;billion for the year ended December&nbsp;31,2009, compared with $20.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year, reflecting an increase in the allowance forcredit losses in the home lending and credit card loan portfolios. Included in the 2009 addition tothe allowance for loan losses was a $1.6&nbsp;billion increase related to estimated deterioration in theWashington Mutual purchased credit-impaired portfolio. The wholesale provision for credit losseswas $4.0&nbsp;billion for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, compared with $2.7&nbsp;billion in the prioryear, reflecting continued weakness in the credit environment. &nbsp; &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisMARKET RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of portfolios andfinancial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.Market risk managementMarket Risk is an independent risk management function, aligned primarily with each of the Firm'sbusiness segments. Market Risk works in partnership with the business segments to identify andmonitor market risks throughout the Firm as well as to define market risk policies and procedures.The risk management function is headed by the Firm's Chief Risk Officer.Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operatingperformance and make the Firm's market risk profile transparent to senior management, the Board ofDirectors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the following functions:Risk identification and classificationEach business segment is responsible for the comprehensive identification and verification ofmarket risks within its units. The highest concentrations of market risk are found in IB, ConsumerLending, and the Firm's Chief Investment Office in the Corporate/Private Equity Segment.IB makes markets and trades its products across several different asset classes. These assetclasses primarily include fixed income risk (both interest rate risk and credit spread risk),foreign exchange, equities and commodities risk. These trading risks may lead to the potentialdecline in net income due to adverse changes in market rates. In addition to these trading risks,there are risks in IB's credit portfolio from retained loans and commitments, derivative creditvaluation adjustments, hedges of the credit valuation adjustments and mark-to-market hedges of theretained loan portfolio. Additional risk positions result from the debit valuation adjustmentstaken on certain structured liabilities and derivatives to reflect the credit quality of the Firm.The Firm's Consumer Lending business unit includes the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouseloans, MSRs and all related hedges. These activities give rise to complex interest rate risks, aswell as option and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded inmortgages and changes in the probability of newly originated mortgage commitments actuallyclosing. Basis risk results from differences in the relative movements of the rate indicesunderlying mortgage exposure and other interest rates.The Chief Investment Office is primarily concerned with managing structural market risks whicharise out of the various business activities of the Firm. These include structural interest raterisk, and foreign exchange risk. Market Risk measures and monitors the gross structural exposuresas well as the net exposures related to these activities.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses variousmetrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions, basis pointvalues, option sensitivities, market values, position concentrations and position turnover. Thesemeasures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated byline of business and by risk type, and are used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals andtactical control.Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure, VaR, estimates the potential loss from adversemarket moves in a normal market environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure ofrisk profiles and levels of diversification. VaR is used for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring limits, and as an input to economic capital calculations. Each business day, as part ofits risk management activities, the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VaR calculation that includesthe majority of its market risks. These VaR results are reported to senior management.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTo calculate VaR, the Firm uses historical simulation, based on a one-day time horizon and anexpected tail-loss methodology, which measures risk across instruments and portfolios in aconsistent and comparable way. The simulation is based on data for the previous 12&nbsp;months. Thisapproach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative of future changes;this assumption may not always be accurate, particularly when there is volatility in the marketenvironment. For certain products, such as lending facilities and some mortgage-related securitiesfor which price-based time series are not readily available, market-based data are used inconjunction with sensitivity factors to estimate the risk. It is likely that using an actualprice-based time series for these products, if available, would impact the VaR results presented.In addition, certainrisk parameters, such as correlation risk among certain instruments, are notfully captured in VaR.In the third quarter of 2008, the Firm revised its reported IB Trading and credit portfolio VaRmeasure to include additional risk positions previously excluded from VaR, thus creating a morecomprehensive view of the Firm's market risks. In addition, the Firm moved to calculating VaR usinga 95% confidence level to provide a more stable measure of the VaR for day-to-day risk management.The following sections describe JPMorgan Chase's VaR measures under both the legacy 99% confidencelevel as well as the new 95% confidence level. The Firm intends to present VaR solely at the 95%confidence level commencing in the first quarter of 2010, as information for two completeyear-to-date periods will then be available.The table below shows the results of the Firm's VaR measure using the legacy 99%confidence level.99% Confidence-Level VaRIB trading VaR by risk type and credit portfolio VaR &nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe 99% confidence level trading VaR includes substantially all trading activities in IB. Beginningin the fourth quarter of 2008, the credit spread sensitivities of certain mortgage products wereincluded in trading VaR. This change had an insignificant impact on the average fourth quarter VaR.For certain other products included in the trading VaR, particular risk parameters are not fullycaptured &#150; for example, correlation risk. Trading VaR does not include: held-for-sale funded loanand unfunded commitments positions (however, it does include hedges of those positions); the DVAtaken on derivative and structured liabilities to reflect the credit quality of the Firm; the MSRportfolio; and securities and instruments held by other corporate functions, such as PrivateEquity. See the DVA Sensitivity table on page 122 of this Annual Report for further details. For adiscussion of MSRs and the corporate functions, see Note 3 on pages 148&#150;165, Note 17 on pages214&#150;217 and Corporate/ Private Equity on pages 74&#150;75 of this Annual Report.2009 VaR results (99% confidence level VaR)IB's average total trading and credit portfolio VaR was $248&nbsp;million for 2009, compared with $202million for 2008, primarily driven by market volatility. Volatility began to significantly increaseacross all asset classes from late 2008 and persisted through the first quarter of 2009. From thesecond quarter of 2009 onwards, volatility in the markets gradually declined; however, the impactof the volatile periods was still reflected in the 2009 VaR numbers.Spot total trading and credit portfolio VaR as of December&nbsp;31, 2009, was $146&nbsp;million, comparedwith $317&nbsp;million as of December&nbsp;31, 2008. The decrease in the spot VaR in 2009 reflects thereduction in overall risk levels as well as the aforementioned decline in market volatility by theend of 2009 when compared to the end of 2008.For 2009, compared with the prior year, average trading VaR diversification increased to $131million, or 37% of the sum of the components, from $108&nbsp;million, or 36% of the sum of thecomponents in the prior year. In general, over the course of the year, VaR exposures can varysignificantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefitschange.VaR backtesting (99% confidence level VaR)To evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, the Firm conducts daily back-testing of VaR againstdaily IB market risk-related revenue, which is defined as the change in value of principaltransactions revenue (excluding private equity gains/(losses)) plus any trading-related netinterest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue. The daily IB marketrisk-related revenue excludes gains and losses on held-for-sale funded loans and unfundedcommitments and from DVA. The following histogram illustrates the daily market risk-related gainsand losses for IB trading businesses for the year ended 2009. The chart shows that IB posted marketrisk-related gains on 219 out of 261&nbsp;days in this period, with 54&nbsp;days exceeding $160&nbsp;million. Theinset graph looks at those days on which IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which 99%confidence level VaR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 42days during the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009, with no loss exceeding the VaR measure. The Firmwould expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates once in every 100 tradingdays, or about two to three times a year. &nbsp; Table of ContentsThe table below shows the results of the Firm's VaR measure using a 95% confidencelevel.95% Confidence Level VaRTotal IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaR &nbsp;VaR measurementThe Firm's 95% VaR measure above includes all the risk positions taken into account under the 99%confidence level VaR measure, as well as syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends todistribute. The Firm utilizes proxies to estimate the VaR for these products since daily timeseries are largely not available. In addition, the 95% VaR measure also includes certain positionsutilized as part of the Firm's risk management function within the Chief Investment Office (&#147;CIO&#148;)and in the Consumer Lending businesses to provide a Total IB and other VaR measure. The CIO VaRincludes positions, primarily in debt securities and credit products, used to manage structuralrisk and other risks, including interest rate, credit and mortgage risks arising from the Firm'songoing business activities. The Consumer Lending VaR includes the Firm's mortgage pipeline andwarehouse loans, MSRs and all related hedges. In the Firm's view, including these items in VaRproduces a more complete perspective of the Firm's market risk profile.The 95% VaR measure continues to exclude the DVA taken on certain structured liabilities andderivatives to reflect the credit quality of the Firm. It also excludes certain activities such asPrivate Equity, principal investing (e.g., mezzanine financing, tax-oriented investments, etc.) andbalance sheet, capital management positions and longer-term investments managed by the CIO. Theselonger-term positions are managed through the Firm's earnings-at-risk and other cashflow-monitoring processes rather than by using a VaR measure. Principal investing activities andPrivate Equity positions are managed using stress and scenario analysis.2009 VaR results (95% confidence level VaR)Spot IB and other VaR as of December&nbsp;31, 2009, was $123&nbsp;million, compared with $286&nbsp;million as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2008. The decrease in spot VaR in 2009 is a consequence of reductions in overall riskas well as declining market volatility. In general, over the course of the year, VaR exposures canvary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefitschange.VaR backtesting (95% confidence level VaR)To evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, the Firm conducts daily back-testing of VaR against theFirm's market risk-related revenue, which is defined as follows: the change in value of principaltransactions revenue for IB and CIO (excluding private equity gains/(losses) and revenue fromlonger-term CIO investments); trading-related net interest income for IB, RFS and CIO (excludinglonger-term CIO investments); IB brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue; revenuefrom syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; and mortgage fees andrelated income for the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all related hedges.The daily firmwide market risk-related revenue excludes gains and losses from DVA. &nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following histogram illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for IBand Consumer/CIO positions for 2009. The chart shows that the Firm posted market risk-related gainson 227 out of 261&nbsp;days in this period, with 69&nbsp;days exceeding $160&nbsp;million. The inset graph looksat those days on which the Firm experienced losses and depicts the amount by which the 95%confidence level VaR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 34days during 2009 and exceeded the VaR measure on one day due to high market volatility in the firstquarter of 2009. Under the 95% confidence interval, the Firm would expect to incur daily lossesgreater than that predicted by VaR estimates about twelve times a year.The following table provides information about the gross sensitivity of DVA to aone-basis-point increase in JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads. This sensitivity represents the impactfrom a one-basis-point parallel shift in JPMorgan Chase's entire credit curve. As credit curves donot typically move in a parallel fashion, the sensitivity multiplied by the change in spreads at asingle maturity point may not be representative of the actual revenue recognized.Debit valuation adjustment sensitivityLoss advisories and drawdownsLoss advisories and drawdowns are tools used to highlight to senior management trading losses abovecertain levels and initiate discussion of remedies.Economic value stress testingWhile VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in normal markets, stress testingcaptures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firmconducts economic-value stress tests using multiple scenarios that assume credit spreads widensignificantly, equity prices decline and significant changes in interest rates across the majorcurrencies. Other scenarios focus on the risks predominant in individual business segments andinclude scenarios that focus on the potential for adverse movements in complex portfolios.Scenarios were updated more frequently in 2009 and, in some cases, redefined to reflect thesignificant market volatility which began in late 2008. Along with VaR, stress testing isimportant in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing enhances the understanding of theFirm's risk profile and loss potential, and stress losses are monitored against limits. Stresstesting is also utilized in one-off approvals and cross-business risk measurement, as well as aninput to economic capital allocation. Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on currentmarket risk positions are reported to the Firm's senior management and to the lines of business tohelp them better measure and manage risks and to understand event risk-sensitive positions.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEarnings-at-risk stress testingThe VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of theFirm's Consolidated Balance Sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rateexposure on reported net income is also important. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's corenontrading business activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from on-and off-balance sheet positions and can occur dueto a variety of factors, including:The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated,corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through atransfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that canbe risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances andcontractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepaymentexperience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and anyinterest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions aredynamically reviewed.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in net interest income from its nontrading activitiesunder a variety of interest rate scenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change inthe Firm's net interest income, and the corresponding impact to the Firm's pretax earnings, overthe following 12&nbsp;months. These tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such asthe rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionalityand changes in product mix. The tests includeforecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset salesand securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number of alternativescenarios are also reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rateshifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are intended toprovide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings at risk over a wide range of outcomes.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pretax earnings sensitivity profile as of December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, isas follows.&nbsp;The change in earnings at risk from December&nbsp;31, 2008, results from a higher level of AFSsecurities and an updated baseline scenario that uses higher short-term interest rates. The Firm'srisk to rising rates is largely the result of increased funding costs on assets, partially offsetby widening deposit margins, which are currently compressed due to very low short-term interestrates.Additionally, another interest rate scenario, involving a steeper yield curve with long-term ratesrising 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels, results in a 12-monthpretax earnings benefit of $449&nbsp;million. The increase in earnings is due to reinvestment ofmaturing assets at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged.Risk identification for large exposuresIndividuals who manage risk positions, particularly those that are complex, are responsible foridentifying potential losses that could arise from specific, unusual events, such as a potentialtax change, and estimating the probabilities of losses arising from such events. This informationis entered into the Firm's RIFLE database. Management of trading businesses control RIFLE entries,thereby permitting the Firm to monitor further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered bystandard risk measures.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's riskappetite in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, theFirm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity, business trendsand management experience.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisMarket risk management regularly reviews and updates risk limits. Senior management, including theFirm's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approvingrisk limits on an ongoing basis.The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits include VaR and stresslimits. Similarly, line-of-business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented byloss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and instrument authorities. Businesses are responsiblefor adhering to established limits, against which exposures are monitored and reported. Limitbreaches are reported in a timely manner to senior management, and the affected business segment isrequired to reduce trading positions or consult with senior management on the appropriate action.Qualitative reviewThe Market Risk Management group also performs periodic reviews as necessary of both businesses andproducts with exposure to market risk to assess the ability of the businesses to control theirmarket risk. Strategies, market conditions, product details and risk controls are reviewed andspecific recommendations for improvements are made to management.Model reviewSome of the Firm's financial instruments cannot be valued based on quoted market prices but areinstead valued using pricing models. Such models are used for management of risk positions, such asreporting against limits, as well as for valuation. The Model RiskGroup, which is independent ofthe businesses and market risk management, reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses modelappropriateness and consistency. The model reviews consider a number of factors about the model'ssuitability for valuation and risk management of a particular product, including whether itaccurately reflects the characteristics of the transaction and its significant risks, thesuitability and convergence properties of numerical algorithms, reliability of data sources,consistency of the treatment with models for similar products, and sensitivity to input parametersand assumptions that cannot be priced from the market.Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, as well as previously accepted models, to assesswhether there have been any changes in the product or market that may impact the model's validityand whether there are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment of themodel's adequacy. For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting EstimatesUsed by the Firm on pages 127&#150;131 of this Annual Report.Risk reportingNonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, loss advisories and limit excesses are reported daily tosenior management. Market risk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profit-and-loss changes andportfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress-test results are reported at least every twoweeks to the businesses and senior management.PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk managementThe Firm makes principal investments in private equity. The illiquid nature and long-term holdingperiod associated with these investments differentiates private equity risk from the risk ofpositions held in the trading portfolios. The Firm's approach to managing private equity risk isconsistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. Controls are in place establishingexpected levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of theportfolio. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place and intended to ensurediversification of the portfolio. Allinvestments are approved by an investment committee thatincludes executives who are not part of the investing businesses. An independent valuation functionis responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying values of private equityinvestments in accordance with relevant accounting policies. At December&nbsp;31, 2009 and 2008, thecarrying value of the Private Equity portfolio was $7.3&nbsp;billion and $6.9&nbsp;billion, respectively, ofwhich $762&nbsp;million and $483&nbsp;million, respectively, represented publicly-traded positions. Forfurther information on the Private Equity portfolio, see page 75 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsOPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes orsystems, human factors or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm's businesses and support activities. Operationalrisk can manifest itself in various ways, including errors, fraudulent acts, businessinterruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, or vendors that do not perform in accordancewith their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses and other damage to theFirm, including reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system of comprehensive policies anda control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. Thegoal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength,the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational risk with risk measures, toolsand disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.One of the ways operational risk is mitigated is through insurance maintained by the Firm. TheFirm purchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and regulations, as well as to serveother needs of the Firm. Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm doesbusiness. The insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.The Firm's operational risk framework is supported by Phoenix, an internally designed operationalrisk software tool. Phoenix integrates the individual components of the operational risk managementframework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix enhances the capture, reporting and analysis ofoperational risk data by enabling risk identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting andanalysis to be done in an integrated manner, thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm's monitoringand management of its operational risk.For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizesoperational risk events as follows:Risk identificationRisk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that management believes maygive rise to operational losses. All businesses utilize the Firm's standard self-assessment processand supporting architecture as a dynamic risk management tool. The goal of the self-assessmentprocess is for each business to identify the key operational risks specific to its environment andassess the degree to which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed forcontrol issues identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving theseissues on a timely basis.Risk measurementOperational risk is measured for each business on the basis of historical loss experience using astatistically based loss-distribution approach. The current business environment, potential stressscenarios and measures of the control environment are then factored into the statistical measure indetermining the Firmwide operational risk capital. This methodology is designed to comply with theadvanced measurement rules under the new Basel II Framework.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, permitting analysis of errorsand losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed both at a line-of-business level and byrisk-event type, enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data can be supplemented with external data forcomparative analysis with industry patterns. The data reported enables the Firm to back-testagainst self-assessment results. The Firm is a founding member of the Operational Riskdata eXchangeAssociation, a not-for-profit industry association formed for the purpose of collecting operationalloss data, sharing data in an anonymous form and benchmarking results back to members. Suchinformation supplements the Firm's ongoing operational risk measurement and analysis.Risk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information, including informationabout actual operational loss levels and self-assessment results, to the lines of business andsenior management. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operationalrisk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and to provideconsistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and support areas.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independent assessmentof the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatory complianceand reporting. This includes reviewing the operational risk framework, the effectiveness andaccuracy of the business self-assessment process and the loss data-collection and reportingactivities.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisREPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;A firm's success depends not only on its prudent management of the liquidity, credit, marketand operational risks that are part of its business risks, but equally on the maintenance amongmany constituents &#150; clients, investors, regulators, as well asthe general public &#150; of a reputationfor business practices of the highest quality. Attention to reputation always has been a key aspectof the Firm's practices, and maintenance of the Firm's reputation is the responsibility of everyoneat the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many ways, including throughthe Firm's Code of Conduct, training, maintaining adherence to policies and procedures, andoversight functions that approve transactions. These oversight functions include line-of-businessesrisk committees, a Conflicts Office, which examines wholesale transactions with the potential tocreate conflicts of interest for the Firm; and a Reputation Risk Office and regional ReputationRisk Committees, which review certain transactions that have the potential to affect adversely theFirm's reputation. These regional committees, whose members are senior representatives ofbusinesses and control functions in the region, focus among other things on complex derivatives andstructured finance transactions with clients with the goal that these transactions not be used tomislead the client's investors or others.Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line of business include in their mandate oversight ofthe legal, reputational and, where appropriate, fiduciary risks in their businesses that mayproduce significant losses or reputational damage. The Fiduciary Risk Management function workswith the relevant line-of-business risk committees, with the goal of ensuring that businessesproviding investment or risk management products or services that give rise to fiduciary duties toclients perform at the appropriate standard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client.Of particular focus are the policies and practices that address a business' responsibilities to aclient, including client suitability determination; disclosure obligations and communications; andperformance expectations with respect to risk management products or services being provided. Inthis way, the relevant line-of-business risk committees, together with the Fiduciary RiskManagement function, provide oversight of the Firm's efforts to monitor, measure and control therisks that may arise in the delivery of products or services to clients that give rise to suchfiduciary duties, as well as those stemming from any of the Firm's fiduciary responsibilities toemployees under the Firm's various employee benefit plans.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding itsreported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment toascertain the value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies andcontrol procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as partof such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from periodto period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process forchanging methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates fordetermining the value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a briefdescription of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained wholesale and consumer loanportfolios, as well as the Firm's portfolio of wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments.The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets to reflectprobable credit losses as of the balance sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologiesused in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 14 on pages 196&#150;198 of thisAnnual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-relatedcommitments involves significant judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identificationof credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves judgment in establishing the inputs used toestimate the allowances. Third, it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomicfactors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio, and to refine loss factors to better reflect theseconditions.The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill itsobligations. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered arethe obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, theamount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, andthe industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an evaluationof historical and current information and involve subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor over another or considering additional factors could affect the risk ratingassigned by the Firm to that loan.The Firm applies its judgment to establish loss factors used in calculating the allowances.Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical lossexperience in its models for estimating the allowances. Many factors can affect estimates of loss,including volatility of loss given default, probability ofdefault and rating migrations.Consideration is given as to whether the loss estimates should be calculated as an average over theentire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle, as well as to which external datashould be used and when they should be used. Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm'sspecific loan portfolio characteristics could also affect loss estimates. The application ofdifferent inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined appropriateby the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived, taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yetreflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both loss given default and probability ofdefault are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated anddeteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based onmanagement's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio.As noted above, the Firm's wholesale allowance is sensitive to the risk rating assigned to a loan.As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, assuming a one-notch downgrade in the Firm's internal risk ratings for itsentire wholesale portfolio, the allowance for loan losses for the wholesale portfolio wouldincrease by approximately $1.8&nbsp;billion. This sensitivity analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm'sview, the likelihood of a one-notch downgrade for all wholesale loans within a short timeframe isremote. The purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the impact of risk ratings onthe estimate of the allowance for loan losses for wholesale loans. It is not intended to implymanagement's expectation of future deterioration in risk ratings. Given the process the Firmfollows in determining the risk ratings of its loans, management believes the risk ratingscurrently assigned to wholesale loans are appropriate.Consumer loans and lending-related commitmentsThe allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio is sensitive to changes in the economicenvironment, delinquency status, FICO scores, the realizable value of collateral, borrower behaviorand other risk factors, and it is intended to represent management's best estimate of incurredlosses as of the balance sheet date. The credit performance of the consumer portfolio across theentire consumer credit product spectrum continues to be negatively affected by the economicenvironment, as the weak labor market and overall economic conditions have resulted in increaseddelinquencies, while continued weak housing prices have driven a significant increase in lossseverity. Significant judgment is required to estimate the duration and severity of the currenteconomic downturn, as well as its potential impact on housing prices and the labor market. Whilethe allowance for credit losses is highly sensitive to both home prices and unemployment rates, inthe current market it is difficult to estimate how potential changes in one or both of thesefactors might affect&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisthe allowance for credit losses. For example, while both factors are importantdeterminants of overall allowance levels, changes in one factor or the other may not occur at thesame rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor mayoffset deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors would not necessarily beconsistent across geographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent towhich changes inboth or either of these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity oflosses or both; and overall loss rates are a function of both the frequency and severity ofindividual loan losses.The allowance is calculated by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to poolsof loans with similar risk characteristics to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses in theportfolio. Management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfoliocategory using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate charge-offs.Management uses additional statistical methods and considers portfolio and collateral valuationtrends to review the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate. The statisticalcalculation is adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors andcurrent economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the factors used to derivethe statistical calculation, and is accomplished in part by analyzing the historical lossexperience for each major product segment. In the current economic environment, it is difficult topredict whether historical loss experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management appliesjudgment in determining this adjustment, taking into accountthe uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic and politicalconditions, quality of underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factorsaffecting the credit quality of the portfolio.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portionof its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities arecarried at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are carried at fairvalue on a nonrecurring basis, including loans accounted for at the lower of cost or fair valuethat are only subject to fair value adjustments under certain circumstances.Under U.S. GAAP there is a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair valuemeasurements. An instrument's categorization within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level ofinput that is significant to the fair value measurement. Therefore, for instruments classified inlevels 1 and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs are principally based on observable market data,there is less judgment applied in arriving at a fair value measurement. For instruments classifiedwithin level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are more significant. The Firm reviews and updates thefair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Changes from one quarter to the nextrelated to the observability of inputs to a fair value measurement may result in a reclassificationbetween hierarchy levels.Assets carried at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fairvalue and the portion of such assets that are classified withinlevel 3 of the valuation hierarchy.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of Contents&nbsp;ValuationThe Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining fair value. Fair value isbased on quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fairvalue is based on internally developed models that primarily use as inputs market-based orindependently sourced market parameters. The Firm's process is intended to ensure that allapplicable inputs are appropriately calibrated to market data, including but not limited to yieldcurves, interest rates,volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In addition tomarket information, models also incorporate transaction details, such as maturity. Valuationadjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. Theseadjustments include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's creditworthiness,constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters that are applied consistently over time.For instruments classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair valuemay be significant. In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3,management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack ofobservability of significant inputs, management must assess all relevant empirical data in derivingvaluation inputs &#150; including, but not limited to, yield curves, interest rates, volatilities,equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. In addition to market information,models also incorporate transaction details, such as maturity. Finally, management judgment must beapplied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty creditquality, the Firm's creditworthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable parameters, whererelevant. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specificcontractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. TheFirm has numerous controls in place to ensure that its valuations are appropriate. An independentmodel review group reviews the Firm's valuation models and approves them for use for specificproducts. All valuation models of the Firm are subject to this review process. A price verificationgroup, independent from the risk-taking functions, ensures observable market prices andmarket-based parameters are used for valuation whenever possible. For those products with materialparameter risk for which observable market levels do not exist, an independent review of theassumptions made on pricing is performed. Additional review includes deconstruction of the modelvaluations for certain structured instruments into their components; benchmarking valuations, wherepossible, to similar products; validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement; anddetailed review and explanation of recorded gains and losses, which are analyzed daily and overtime. Valuation adjustments, which are also determined by theindependent price verification group,are based onestablished policies and applied consistently over time. Any changes to the valuationmethodology are reviewed by management to confirm the changes are justified. As markets andproducts develop and the pricing for certain products becomes more transparent, the Firm continuesto refine its valuation methodologies. During 2009, no changes were made to the Firm's valuationmodels that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated BalanceSheets or results of operations.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs can affect the amount of revenue or lossrecorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods areappropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the use of differentmethodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments couldresult in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion ofthe determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3 on pages 148&#150;165of this Annual Report. In addition, for a further discussion of the significant judgments andestimates involved in the determination of the Firm's mortgage-related exposures, see&#147;Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value&#148; in Note 3 on pages 161&#150;162 of this AnnualReport.Purchased credit-impaired loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain loanswith evidence of deterioration of credit quality since the origination and for which it wasprobable, at acquisition, that the Firm would be unable to collect all contractually requiredpayments receivable. These purchased credit-impaired loans are accounted for on a pool basis, andthe pools are considered to be performing. At the time of the acquisition, these loans wererecorded at fair value, including an estimate of losses that are expected to be incurred over theestimated remaining lives of the loan pools. Many of the assumptions and estimates underlying theestimation of the initial fair value and the ongoing updates to management's expectation of futurecash flows are both significant and subjective, particularly considering the current economicenvironment. The level of future home price declines, the duration and severity of the currenteconomic downturn, and the lack of market liquidity and transparency are factors that haveinfluenced, and may continue to affect, these assumptions and estimates.Determining which loans are included in the scope is highly subjective and requires significantjudgment. In the Washington Mutual transaction, consumer loans with certain attributes (e.g.,higher loan-to-value ratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores, delinquencies) were determined to becredit-impaired, provided that those attributes arose subsequent to the loans' origination dates. Awholesale loan was determined to be credit-impaired if it was risk-&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisrated such that it wouldotherwise have required an asset-specific allowance for loan losses.Loans determined to be purchased credit-impaired were initially recorded at fair value, whichincluded estimated future credit losses. If such loans had not been within the scope of theaccounting guidance for purchased credit-impaired loans, they would have been recorded at thepresent values of amounts to be received determined at appropriate current interest rates, less anallowance for loan losses (i.e., the Washington Mutual allowance for loan losses would have beencarried over at the acquisition date).The Firm estimated the fair value of its purchased credit-impaired loans at the acquisition date bydiscounting the cash flows expected to be collected at a market-observable discount rate, whenavailable, adjusted for factors that a market participant would consider in determining fair value.The initial estimate of cash flows to be collected was derived from assumptions such as defaultrates, loss severities and the amount and timing of prepayments.The accounting guidance for these loans provides that the excess of the cash flows initiallyexpected to be collected over the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date (i.e., theaccretable yield) should be accreted into interest income at a level rate of return over the termof the loan, provided that the timing and amount of future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Theinitial estimate of cash flows expected to be collected must be updated each subsequent reportingperiod based on updated assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts andtiming of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current market conditions. Probabledecreases in expected loan principal cash flows after acquisition trigger the recognition ofimpairment, through the provision and allowance for loan losses, which is then measured based onthe present value of the expected principal loss, plus any related foregone interest cash flowsdiscounted at the pool's effective interest rate. Probable and significant increases in expected principal cash flows would firstreverse any related allowance for loan losses; any remaining increases must be recognizedprospectively as interest income over the remaining lives of the loans. The impacts of (i)prepayments, (ii)&nbsp;changes in variable interest rates and (iii)&nbsp;other changes in timing of expectedcash flows are recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest income. As described above, theprocess of estimating cash flows expected to be collected has a significant impact on the initialrecorded amount of the purchased credit-impaired loans and on subsequent recognition of impairmentlosses and/or interest income. Estimating these cash flows requires a significant level ofmanagement judgment. In addition, certain of the underlying assumptions are highly subjective. Asof December&nbsp;31, 2009, a 1% decrease in expected future principal cash payments for the entireportfolio of purchased credit-impaired loans would result in the recognition of an allowance forloan losses for these loans of approximately $800&nbsp;million.Finally, the accounting guidance states that investors may aggregate loans into pools that havecommon risk characteristics and thereby use a composite interest rate and estimate of cash flowsexpected to be collected for the pools. The Firm has aggregated substantially all of the purchasedcredit-impaired loans identified in the Washington Mutual transaction (i.e., the residential realestate loans) into poolswith common risk characteristics. The pools then become the unit ofaccounting and are considered one loan for purposes of accounting for these loans at and subsequentto acquisition. Once a pool is assembled, the integrity of the pool must be maintained. Significantjudgment is required in evaluating whether individual loans have common risk characteristics forpurposes of establishing pools of loans.Goodwill impairmentUnder U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment at leastannually. The Firm's process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing isdescribed in Note 17 on pages 214&#150;217 of this Annual Report.Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair value of its reporting units.Imprecision in estimating (a)&nbsp;the future earnings potential of the Firm's reporting units and (b)the relevant cost of equity or terminal value growth rates can affect the estimated fair value ofthe reporting units. The fair values of a significant majority of the Firm's reporting unitsexceeded their carrying values by substantial amounts (fair value as a percent of carrying valueranged from 140% to 500%) and thus, did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairmentbased on current projections and valuations.However, the goodwill associated with the Firm's consumer lending businesses in RFS and CS haveelevated risk due to their exposure to U.S. consumer credit risk. The valuation of these businessesand their assets are particularly dependent upon economic conditions (including unemployment ratesand home prices) that affect consumer credit risk and behavior, as well as potential legislativeand regulatory changes that could affect the Firm's consumer lending businesses. The assumptionsused in the valuation of these businesses include portfolio outstanding balances, net interestmargin, operating expense and forecasted credit losses and were made using management's bestprojections. The cost of equity used in the discounted cash flow model reflected the estimated riskand uncertainty for these businesses and was evaluated in comparison with relevant market peers.The fair value of the credit card lending business within CS exceeded its carrying value byapproximately 8%. The fair value of a consumer lending business within RFS did not exceed itscarrying value; however, implied fair value of the goodwill allocated to this consumer lendingbusiness within RFS significantly exceeded its carrying value.The Firmdid not recognize goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2009, basedon management's best estimates. However, prolonged weakness ordeterioration in economic market conditions, or additional regulatoryor legislative changes, may result in declines in projected businessperformance beyond management's expectations. This could cause theestimated fair values of the Firm's reporting units or theirassociated goodwill to decline, which may result in a materialimpairment charge to earnings in a future period related to someportion of their associated goodwill.&nbsp; Table of ContentsIncome taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various jurisdictions in whichit operates, including U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws areoften complex and may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial statementimpact of accounting for income taxes, including the provision for income tax expense andunrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how tointerpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as well asthe timing of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. taxjurisdictions.JPMorgan Chase's interpretations of tax laws around the world are subject to review and examinationby the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes mayoccur regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the varioustaxing authorities may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication by the courtsystems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviewswhether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of these matters,and the Firm records additional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise itsestimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations and tax planningstrategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm's estimate of income taxes may materiallyaffect the Firm's results of operations in any reporting period.The Firm's provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxesarise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versusincome tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, theirrealizability is determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred taxassets in connection with certain net operating losses. The Firm performs regular reviews toascertain the realizability of its deferred tax assets. These reviews include management'sestimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various taxplanning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize net operating lossesbefore they expire. In connection with these reviews, if a deferred tax asset is determined to beunrealizable, a valuation allowance is established. As of December&nbsp;31, 2009, management hasdetermined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net ofthe existing valuation allowance.The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when additional information becomesavailable. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold aremeasured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured atthe largest amount of benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized uponsettlement. It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits mayhave a material impact on its effective tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS&nbsp;FASB Accounting Standards CodificationIn July&nbsp;2009, the FASB implemented the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the &#147;Codification&#148;)as the single source of authoritative U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. TheCodification simplifies the classification of accounting standards into one online database under acommon referencing system, organized into eight areas, ranging from industry-specific to generalfinancial statement matters. Use of the Codification is effective for interim and annual periodsending after September&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firm began to use the Codification on the effective date, andit had no impact on the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements. However, throughout this AnnualReport, all references to prior FASB, AICPA and EITF accounting pronouncements have been removed,and all non-SEC accounting guidance is referred to in terms of the applicable subject matter.Business combinations/noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statementsIn December&nbsp;2007, the FASB issued guidance which amended the accounting and reporting of businesscombinations, as well as noncontrolling (i.e., minority) interests. For JPMorgan Chase, theguidance became effective for business combinations that close on or after January&nbsp;1, 2009. Theguidance for noncontrolling interests, as amended, became effective for JPMorgan Chase for fiscalperiods beginning January&nbsp;1, 2009. In April&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued additional guidance, which amendsthe accounting for contingencies acquired in a business combination.The amended guidance for business combinations generally only impacts the accounting fortransactions that closed after December&nbsp;31, 2008, and generally only impacts certain aspects ofbusinesscombination accounting, such as the accounting for transaction costs and certain merger-relatedrestructuring reserves, as well as the accounting for partial acquisitions where control isobtained by JPMorgan Chase. One exception to the prospective application of thebusiness-combination guidance relates to accounting for income taxes associated with transactionsthat closed prior to January&nbsp;1, 2009. Once the purchase accounting measurement period closes forthese acquisitions, any further adjustments to income taxes recorded as part of these businesscombinations will impact income tax expense. Previously, these adjustments were predominantlyrecorded as adjustments to goodwill.The guidance for noncontrolling interests, as amended, requires that they be accounted for andpresented as equity if material, rather than as a liability or mezzanine equity. The presentationand disclosure requirements for noncontrolling interests are to be applied retrospectively. Theadoption of the reporting requirements for noncontrolling interests was not material to the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Accounting for transfers of financial assets and repurchase financing transactionsIn February&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued guidance which requires an initial transfer of a financial assetand a repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of,the initial transfer to be evaluated together as a linked transaction, unless certain criteria aremet. The Firm adopted the guidance on January&nbsp;1, 2009, for transactions entered into after the dateof adoption. The adoption of the guidance did not have a material impact on the Firm's ConsolidatedBalance Sheets or results of operations.Disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activitiesIn March&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued guidance which amends the prior disclosure requirements forderivatives. The guidance, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November&nbsp;15, 2008,requires increased disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities and theireffects on an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. The Firm adoptedthe guidance on January&nbsp;1, 2009, and it only affected JPMorgan Chase's disclosures of derivativeinstruments and related hedging activities, and not its Consolidated Balance Sheets or results ofoperations.Determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participatingsecuritiesIn June&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued guidance for participating securities, which clarifies that unvestedstock-based compensation awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividendequivalents (collectively, &#147;dividends&#148;), are considered participating securities and thereforeincluded in the two-class method calculation of EPS. Under this method, all earnings (distributedand undistributed) are allocated to common shares and participating securities based on theirrespective rights to receive dividends. The guidance is effective for financial statements issuedfor fiscal years beginning after December&nbsp;15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. TheFirm adopted the guidance retrospectively effective January&nbsp;1, 2009, and EPS data for all priorperiods have been revised. Adoption of the guidance did not affect the Firm's results of operations,but basic and diluted EPS were reduced as disclosed in Note 25 on page 224 of this Annual Report.Determining whether an instrument (or embeddedfeature) is indexed to an entity's own stockIn June&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued guidance which establishes a two-step process for evaluating whetherequity-linked financial instruments and embedded features are indexed to a company's own stock forpurposes of determining whether the derivative scope exception should be applied. The guidance iseffective for fiscal years beginning after December&nbsp;2008. The adoption of this guidance on January1, 2009, did not have an impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEmployers' disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assetsIn December&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued guidance requiring more detailed disclosures about employers'plan assets, including investment strategies, classes of plan assets, concentrations of risk withinplan assets and valuation techniques used to measure their fair value. This guidance is effectivefor fiscal years ending after December&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firm adopted these additional disclosurerequirements on December&nbsp;31, 2009, and it only affected JPMorgan Chase's disclosures and not itsConsolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations. Refer to Note 8 on pages 176&#150;183 of thisAnnual Report for additional information.The recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairmentIn April&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the other-than-temporary impairment model fordebt securities. Under the guidance, an other-than-temporary-impairment must be recognized if aninvestor has the intent to sell the debt security or if it is more likely than not that it will berequired to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In addition, theguidance changes the amount of impairment to be recognized in current-period earnings when aninvestor does not have the intent to sell, or if it is more likely than not that it will not berequired to sell the debt security, as in these cases only the amount of the impairment associatedwith credit losses is recognized in income. The guidance also requires additional disclosuresregarding the calculation of credit losses, as well as factors considered in reaching a conclusionthat an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired. The guidance is effective for interimand annual reporting periods ending after June&nbsp;15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periodsending after March&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firm elected to early adopt the guidance as of January&nbsp;1, 2009.For additional information regarding the impact on the Firm of the adoption of the guidance, seeNote 11 on pages 187&#150;191 of this Annual Report.Determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability havesignificantlydecreased, and identifying transactions that are not orderlyIn April&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level ofactivity for an asset or liability have significantly declined. The guidance also includesidentifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. The guidance is effective forinterim and annual reporting periods ending after June&nbsp;15, 2009, with early adoption permitted. TheFirm elected to early adopt the guidance in the first quarter of 2009. The application of theguidance did not have an impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Interim disclosures about fair value of financialinstrumentsIn April&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance that requires disclosures about the fair value of certainfinancial instruments (including financial instruments not carried at fair value) to be presentedin interim financial statements in addition to annual financial statements. The guidance iseffective for interim reporting periods ending after June&nbsp;15, 2009, with earlyadoption permittedfor periods ending after March&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firm adopted the additional disclosure requirementsfor second-quarter 2009 reporting.Subsequent eventsIn May&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance that established general standards of accounting for anddisclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements areissued or are available to be issued. The guidance was effective for interim or annual financialperiods ending after June&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firm adopted the guidance in the second quarter of 2009.The application of the guidance did not have any impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheetsor results of operations.Accounting for transfers of financial assets andconsolidation of variable interest entitiesIn June&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the accounting for the transfers of financialassets and the consolidation of VIEs. The guidance eliminates the concept of QSPEs and providesadditional guidance with regard to accounting for transfers of financial assets. The guidance alsochanges the approach for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE from a quantitative risk andrewards-based model to a qualitative model, based on control and economics. The guidance becameeffective for annual reporting periods beginning after November&nbsp;15, 2009, including all interimperiods within the first annual reporting period. The Firm adopted the new guidance for VIEs onJanuary&nbsp;1, 2010, which required the consolidation of the Firm's credit card securitization trusts,bank-administered asset-backed commercial paper conduits, and certain mortgage and other consumersecuritization entities. At adoption, the Firm added approximately $88&nbsp;billion of U.S. GAAP assets,and stockholders' equity decreased by approximately $4&nbsp;billion.In February&nbsp;2010, the FASB finalized an amendment that defers the requirements of the newconsolidation guidance for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE for certain investmentfunds, including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. For the funds included in thedeferral, the Firm will continue to apply other existing authoritative guidance to determinewhether such funds should be consolidated; as such, these funds are not included in the abovedisclosure of the impact of adopting the new guidance for VIEs.For additional information about the impact to the Firm of the adoption of the new guidance onJanuary&nbsp;1, 2010, see Note 16 on pages 206&#150;214 of this Annual Report.Measuring liabilities at fair valueIn August&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance clarifying how to develop fair value measurements forliabilities, particularly where there may be a lack of observable market information. This guidanceis effective for interim or annual periods beginning after August&nbsp;26, 2009. The Firm adopted theguidance in the third quarter of 2009, and it did not have an impact on the Firm's ConsolidatedBalance Sheets or results of operations.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisMeasuring fair value of certain alternative investmentsIn September&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the guidance on fair value measurementsand offers a practical expedient for measuring the fair value of investments in certain entitiesthat calculate net asset value (&#147;NAV&#148;) per share when the fair value is not readily determinable.This guidance is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period ending after December15, 2009. The Firm adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2009, and it did not have amaterial impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Fair value measurements and disclosuresIn January&nbsp;2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires new disclosures, and clarifies existingdisclosure requirements, about fair value measurements. The clarifications and the requirement toseparately disclose transfers of instruments between level 1 and level 2 of the fair valuehierarchy are effective for interim reporting periods beginning after December&nbsp;15, 2009; however,the requirement to provide purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the level 3 rollforwardon a gross basis is effective for fiscal years beginning after December&nbsp;15, 2010. Early adoption ofthe guidance is permitted.NONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE&nbsp;In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fairvalue estimation techniques, primarily based on internal models with significant observable marketparameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarilyenergy-related.The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2009.The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivativecontracts at December&nbsp;31, 2009.&nbsp;
