Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisFIVE-YEAR STOCK PERFORMANCEThe following table and graph compare thefive-year cumulative total return for JPMorganChase & Co. (&#147;JPMorgan Chase&#148; or the &#147;Firm&#148;) commonstock with the cumulative return of the S&P 500Stock Index and the S&P Financial Index. The S&P500 Index is a commonly referenced U.S. equitybenchmark consisting of leading companies fromdifferent economic sectors. The S&P Financial Indexis an index of 81 financial companies, all of whichare within the S&P 500. The Firm is a component ofboth industry indices.The following table and graph assumes simultaneousinvestments of $100 on December&nbsp;31, 2003, inJPMorgan Chase common stock and in each of theabove S&P indices. The comparison assumes that alldividends are reinvested.&nbsp;This section of the JPMorgan Chase's AnnualReport for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008(&#147;Annual Report&#148;) provides management's discussionand analysis of the financial conditionand results of operations (&#147;MD&A&#148;) of JPMorgan Chase. Seethe Glossary of terms on pages 218&#150;221 fordefinitions of terms used throughout this AnnualReport. The MD&A included in this Annual Reportcontains statements that are forward-looking withinthe meaning of the Private Securities LitigationReform Act of 1995. Such statements arebased upon the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorganChase's management and are subject to significantrisks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's resultsto differ materially from those set forth in suchforward-looking statements. Certain of such risksand uncertainties are described herein (seeForward-looking statements on page 115 of thisAnnual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase AnnualReport on Form 10-K for the year ended December&nbsp;31,2008 (&#147;2008 Form&nbsp;10-K&#148;), in Part&nbsp;I, Item&nbsp;1A: Riskfactors, to which reference is hereby made.INTRODUCTION&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding companyincorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is aleading global financial services firm and one ofthe largest banking institutions in the UnitedStates of America (&#147;U.S.&#148;), with $2.2 trillion inassets, $166.9&nbsp;billion in stockholders' equity andoperations in more than 60 countries as of December31, 2008. The Firm is a leader in investmentbanking, financial services for consumers andbusinesses, financial transaction processing andasset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chasebrands, the Firm serves millions of customers inthe U.S. and many of the world's most prominentcorporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries areJPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association(&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#148;), a national bankingassociation with branches in 23 states in the U.S.;and Chase Bank USA, National Association (&#147;ChaseBank USA, N.A.&#148;), a national bank that is the Firm'scredit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase'sprincipal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. MorganSecurities Inc., the Firm's U.S. investment bankingfirm.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, formanagement reporting purposes, into six businesssegments, as well as Corporate/Private Equity. TheFirm's wholesale businesses comprise the InvestmentBank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & SecuritiesServices and Asset Management segments. The Firm'sconsumer businesses comprise the Retail FinancialServices and Card Services segments.A descriptionof the Firm's business segments, and the products andservices they provide to their respective clientbases, follows.Investment BankJ.P. Morgan is one of the world's leadinginvestment banks, with deep client relationshipsand broad product capabilities. The InvestmentBank's clients are corporations, financialinstitutions, governments andinstitutional investors. The Firm offers a fullrange of investment banking products and servicesin all major capital markets, including advising oncorporate strategy and structure, capital raisingin equity and debt markets, sophisticated riskmanagement, market-making in cash securities andderivative instruments, prime brokerage and research. The Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;)also selectively commits the Firm's own capital toprincipal investing and trading activities.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;), which includesthe Retail Banking and Consumer Lending reportingsegments, serves consumers and businesses throughpersonal service at bank branches and through ATMs,online banking and telephone banking as well asthrough auto dealerships and school financial aidoffices. Customers can use more than 5,400 bankbranches (third-largest nationally) and 14,500 ATMs(second-largest nationally) as well as online andmobile banking around the clock. More than 21,400branch salespeople assist&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysiscustomers with checking and savings accounts,mortgages, home equity and business loans, andinvestments across the 23-state footprint from NewYork and Florida to California. Consumers also canobtain loans through more than 16,000 autodealerships and 4,800 schools and universitiesnationwide.Card ServicesChase Card Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is one of the nation's largestcredit card issuers with more than 168&nbsp;millioncards in circulation and more than $190&nbsp;billion inmanaged loans. Customers used Chase cards to meetmore than $368&nbsp;billion worth of their spendingneeds in 2008. Chase has a market leadershipposition in building loyalty and rewards programswith many of the world's most respected brands andthrough its proprietary products, which includethe Chase Freedom program.Through its merchant acquiring business, ChasePaymentech Solutions, Chase is one ofthe leading processors of MasterCard and Visapayments.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) serves more than 26,000clients nationally, including corporations,municipalities, financial institutions andnot-for-profit entities with annual revenuegenerally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion,and nearly 30,000 real estate investors/owners.Delivering extensive industry knowledge, localexpertise and dedicated service, CB partners withthe Firm's other businesses to providecomprehensive solutions, including lending,treasury services, investment banking and assetmanagement to meet its clients' domestic andinternational financial needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a globalleader in transaction, investment and informationservices. TSS is one of the world's largest cashmanagement providers and a leading globalcustodian. Treasury Services (&#147;TS&#148;) provides cashmanagement, trade, wholesale card and liquidityproducts and services to small and mid-sizedcompanies, multinational corporations, financialinstitutions and government entities. TS partnerswith the Commercial Banking, Retail FinancialServices and Asset Management businesses to serveclients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenueis included in other segments' results. WorldwideSecurities Services (&#147;WSS&#148;) holds, values, clearsand services securities, cash and alternativeinvestments for investors and broker-dealers, andmanages depositary receipt programs globally.Asset ManagementAsset Management (&#147;AM&#148;), with assets under supervision of $1.5 trillion, is a global leader ininvestment and wealth management. AM clientsinclude institutions, retail investors andhigh-net-worth individuals in every major marketthroughout the world. AM offers global investmentmanagement in equities, fixed income, real estate,hedge funds, private equity and liquidity,including money market instruments and bankdeposits. AM also provides trust and estate,banking and brokerage services to high-net-worthclients, and retirement services for corporationsand individuals. The majority of AM's client assetsare in actively managed portfolios.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OVERVIEW&nbsp;This overview of management's discussion andanalysis highlights selected information and maynot contain all of the information that isimportant to readers of this Annual Report. For acomplete description of events, trends anduncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity,credit and market risks, and the criticalaccounting estimates affecting the Firm and itsvarious lines of business, this Annual Reportshould be read in its entirety.Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase&nbsp;Business overviewJPMorgan Chase reported 2008 net income of $5.6billion, or $1.37 per share, and total net revenueof $67.3&nbsp;billion, compared with record net incomeof $15.4&nbsp;billion, or $4.38 per share, and recordtotal net revenue of $71.4&nbsp;billion, for 2007. Returnon common equity was 4% in 2008, compared with 13%in 2007. Results in 2008include the acquisition of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. (&#147;BearStearns&#148;) on May&nbsp;30,2008, and the acquisition of the banking operations of Washington MutualBank (&#147;Washington Mutual&#148;) on September&nbsp;25, 2008.The decline in net income for the year was theresult of a significantly higher provision forcredit losses, reflecting the addition of $13.7billion to the Firm's allowance for credit losses in2008; a decline in total net revenue driven by over$10&nbsp;billion of markdowns on mortgage-relatedpositions and leveraged lending exposures in theInvestment Bank; and an increase in totalnoninterest expense dueto the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction and the Bear Stearns merger.The business environment for financial servicesfirms was extremely challenging in 2008. The globaleconomy slowed, with many countries, including theU.S., slipping into recession. Financial conditionsworsened throughout the year amid a number ofunprecedented developments that undermined theeconomic outlook and eroded confidence in globalfinancial markets. JPMorgan Chase acquired BearStearns through a merger consummatedin May and acquired the banking operations ofWashington Mutual from the Federal DepositInsurance Corporation (&#147;FDIC&#148;) in September. TheU.S. federal government placed the Federal HomeLoan Mortgage Corporation (&#147;Freddie Mac&#148;) and theFederal National Mortgage Association (&#147;FannieMae&#148;) under its control. Lehman Brothers HoldingsInc. declared bankruptcy. The Bank of AmericaCorporation acquired Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. andWells Fargo & Company acquired WachoviaCorporation. The government provided a loan toAmerican International Group, Inc. (&#147;AIG&#148;) inexchange for an equity interest in AIG to preventthe insurer's failure. Morgan Stanley, The GoldmanSachs Group, Inc., GMAC, American Express, DiscoverFinancial Services and CIT Group received approvalfrom the Board of Governors of the Federal ReserveSystem (the &#147;Federal Reserve&#148;) to become federalbank holding companies. In other industries,the U.S. government provided temporary loans to GeneralMotors Corporation and Chrysler LLC.These events accompanied severe strains in termfunding markets, reflecting heightened concernsabout counterparty risk. As a result, LIBOR ratesrose significantly in the fall, despite a round ofcoordinated rate cuts by a number of central banks.By year-end, LIBOR rates eased in response toproposals to insure deposits and selected debt offinancial institutions. The turmoil in financialmarkets during 2008 led to tighter creditconditions and diminished liquidity, causingconsumers and businesses around the world to becomemore cautious and curtail spending and investmentactivity. As a result, the U.S. economy contractedsharply, 2.8&nbsp;million jobs were lost in 2008, andthe U.S. unemployment rate rose significantly, to7.2% by year-end.The continued economic and financial disruption ledthe Federal Reserve to reduce its target overnightinterest rates to near zero in the fourth quarterof 2008, capping off a year of near-continuous ratereductions. In addition, the U.S. Department of theTreasury (the &#147;U.S. Treasury&#148;), the Federal Reserveand the FDIC, working in cooperation with foreigngovernments and other central banks, including theBank of England, the European Central Bank and theSwiss National Bank, began, in the fourth quarterof 2008, to take a variety of extraordinarymeasures designed to restore confidence in thefinancial markets and strengthen financialinstitutions, including capital injections,guarantees of bank liabilities and the acquisitionof illiquid assets from banks. In particular, onOctober&nbsp;3, 2008, the Emergency EconomicStabilization Act of 2008 (the &#147;EESA&#148;) was signedinto law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasuryhas the authority to take a range of&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisactions to stabilize and provide liquidity tothe U.S. financial markets, including the purchaseby the U.S. Treasury of certain troubled assetsfrom financial institutions (the &#147;Troubled AssetRelief Program&#148;) and the direct purchase by theU.S. Treasury of equity of financial institutions(the &#147;Capital Purchase Program&#148;).The efforts to restore confidence in the financialmarkets and promote economic growth continue in2009, with initiatives including a fiscal stimulusbill, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of2009, which was signed into law by President BarackObama on February&nbsp;17, 2009. Also in February,the U.S. Treasury outlined aplan to restore stability to thefinancial system and President Obama proposed aplan to help distressed homeowners. The Federal Reserve, workingwith other government and regulatory agencies, hasalso implemented a number of new programs topromote the proper functioning of the creditmarkets and reintroduce liquidity to the financialsystem. Suchactions taken by U.S. regulatory agencies includethe introduction of programs to restore liquidityto money market mutual funds, the commercial papermarket, and other fixed-income securities markets.In addition, the FDIC issued a temporary liquidity guaranteeprogram (the &#147;TLG Program&#148;) for the senior debt of all FDIC-insuredinstitutions, as well as deposits innoninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts.Despite the difficult operating environment andoverall drop in earnings, JPMorgan Chase maintaineda strong balance sheet and produced underlyinggrowth in many business areas. The Tier 1 capitalratio was 10.9% at year-end; Treasury & SecuritiesServices andCommercial Banking each reported record revenue andnet income for the second straight year; theconsumer businesses opened millions of new checkingand credit card accounts; Asset Managementexperienced record net inflows in assets undermanagement; and the Investment Bank gained marketshare in all major fee categories. The diversifiednature of the Firm's businesses and its strongcapital position enabled it to weather therecessionary environment during 2008.JPMorgan Chase has taken a leadership role inhelping to stabilize the financial markets. Itassumed the risk and expended the necessaryresources to acquire Bear Stearns and the bankingoperations of Washington Mutual. In October&nbsp;2008,the Firm agreed to accept a $25&nbsp;billion capitalinvestment by the U.S. Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program.JPMorgan Chase has continued to lend to clients in a safe and soundmanner and to provide liquidity to multiplefinancial markets. The Firm has implementedprograms that have prevented more than 300,000foreclosures, with plans to help more than 400,000more families keep their homes through Chase-ownedmortgage modifications over the next two years. TheFirm has expanded this effort to include over $1.1trillion of investor-owned mortgages.The discussion that follows highlights theperformance of each business segment compared withthe prior year, and discusses results on a managedbasis unless otherwise noted. For more informationabout managed basis, see Explanation andreconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAPfinancial measures on pages 38&#150;39 of this AnnualReport.Investment Bank reported a net loss for the year,compared with net income in 2007. The significantdecline in results reflected lower total netrevenue, a higher provision for credit losses andhigher total noninterest expense. Markdowns of over$10&nbsp;billion on mortgage-related positions andleveraged lending funded and unfunded commitmentsdrove fixed income trading revenue lower;investment banking fees and equity trading revenuedeclined as well. These decreases were offset byrecord performance in rates and currencies, credittrading, commodities and emerging markets, as wellas strong equity client revenue, and gains from thewidening of the Firm's credit spread on certainstructured liabilities and derivatives. Theprovision for credit losses rose from the 2007level, predominantly reflecting a higher allowancefor credit losses, driven by a weakening creditenvironment, as well as the effect of the transferof $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leveragedlending commitments to retained loans fromheld-for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. Theincrease in total noninterest expense was largelydriven by additional expense relating to the BearStearns merger, offset partially by lowerperformance-based compensation expense. Inaddition, IB benefited from a reduction in deferredtax liabilities on overseas earnings.Retail Financial Services net income declined,reflecting a significant increase in the provisionfor credit losses, predominantly offset by positivemortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSR&#148;) risk managementresults and the positive impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction. Additional drivers of revenuegrowth included wider loan and deposit spreads andhigher loan and deposit balances. The provision forcredit losses increased as housing price declineshave continued to result in significant increasesin estimated losses, particularly for highloan-to-value home equity and mortgage loans. Theprovision was also affected by an increase inestimated losses for the auto, student and businessbanking loan portfolios. Total noninterest expenserose from the 2007 level, reflecting the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgagereinsurance losses, increased mortgage servicingexpense and investments in the retail distributionnetwork.Card Services net income declined, driven by ahigher provision for credit losses partially offsetby higher managed total net revenue. The growth inmanaged total net revenue was driven by the impactof the Washington Mutual transaction, higheraverage managed loan balances, wider loan spreadsand increased interchange income, off-setpredominantly by increased rewards expense andhigher volume-driven payments to partners, as wellas the effect of higher revenue reversalsassociated with higher charge-offs. The managedprovision for credit losses increased from theprior year due to an increase in the allowance forloan losses and a higher level of charge-offs.Total noninterest expense rose from last year,largely due to the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction.Commercial Banking net income increased, surpassingthe record level posted in 2007. The results weredriven by record total net revenue, partiallyoffset by an increase in the provision for creditlosses. The increase in revenue was driven bydouble-digit growth in liability and loan balances,the impact of the Washington Mutual transaction,higher deposit and lending-related fees, andincreases in other fee&nbsp; Table of Contentsincome. These were partially offset by spreadcompression in the liability and loan portfolios.The increase in the provision for credit lossesreflected a weakening credit environment and growthin loan balances. Total noninterest expensedecreased from the prior year, due to lowerperformance-based incentive compensation andvolume-based charges from service providers,predominantly offset by the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction.Treasury & Securities Services net income increasedover the record level set in 2007, driven by recordtotal net revenue, partially offset by highernoninterest expense. Worldwide Securities Servicesposted record net revenue, driven by wider spreadsin securities lending, foreign exchange andliability products, increasedproduct usage by new and existing clients, andhigher liability balances. These benefits werepartially offset by market depreciation. TreasuryServices posted record net revenue, reflectinghigher liability balances and volume growth inelectronic funds transfer products and trade loans.Total noninterest expense increased, reflectinghigher expense related to business and volumegrowth, as well as continued investment in newproduct platforms.Asset Management net income decreased, driven bylower total net revenue, offset partially by lowertotal noninterest expense. The decline in revenuewas due to lower performance fees and the effect oflower markets, including the impact of lower marketvaluations of seed capital investments. Partiallyoffsetting these revenue declines were higherdeposit and loan balances, the benefit of the BearStearns merger, increased revenue from net assetinflows and wider deposit spreads. The provisionfor credit losses rose from the prior year,reflecting an increase in loan balances, higher netcharge-offs and a weakening credit environment.Total noninterest expense declined compared with2007, driven by lower performance-basedcompensation, largely offset by the effect of theBear Stearns merger and higher compensation expenseresulting from increased average headcount.Corporate/Private Equity net income declined fromthe 2007 level and included an extraordinary gainrelated to the Washington Mutual transaction and aconforming loan loss provision. Excluding theseitems, the decrease in net income from the prioryear was driven by private equity losses in 2008,compared with gains in 2007, losses on preferredsecurities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and acharge related to the offer to repurchaseauction-rate securities. These declines werepartially offset by the proceeds from the sale ofVisa shares in its initial public offering and again on the dissolution of the Chase PaymentechSolutions joint venture and the gain from the saleof MasterCard shares. The decrease in totalnoninterest expense reflected a reduction of creditcard-related litigation expense, partially offsetby higher merger costs.The Firm's managed provision for credit losses was$24.6&nbsp;billion for 2008, compared with $9.2&nbsp;billionfor 2007. The total consumer-managed provision forcredit losses was $21.3&nbsp;billion, compared with $8.3billion in the prior year, reflecting increases inthe allowance for credit losses related to homeequity, mortgage and credit card loans, as well ashigher net charge-offs. Consumer-managed netcharge-offs were $13.0&nbsp;billion, compared with $6.8billion in the prior year,resulting in managed net charge-off rates of 3.06%and 1.97%, respectively. The wholesale provisionfor credit losses was $3.3&nbsp;billion, compared with$934&nbsp;million in the prior year, due to an increasein the allowance for credit losses reflecting theeffect of a weakening credit environment and loangrowth. Wholesale net charge-offs were $402million, compared with net charge-offs of $72million in the prior year, resulting in netcharge-off ratesof 0.18% and 0.04%, respectively. The Firm hadtotal nonperforming assets of $12.7&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, up from the prior-year level of$3.9&nbsp;billion.Total stockholders' equity at December&nbsp;31, 2008,was $166.9&nbsp;billion, and the Tier 1 capital ratiowas 10.9%. During 2008, the Firm raised $11.5billion of common equity and $32.8&nbsp;billion ofpreferred equity, including a warrant issued to theU.S. Treasury.2009 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements arebased upon the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject tosignificant risks and uncertainties. These risksand uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase'sactual results to differ materially from those setforth in such forward-looking statements.JPMorganChase's outlook for 2009 should be viewed against the backdropof the global and U.S.&nbsp;economies, financial markets activity,the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment and clientactivity levels. Each of these linked factors will affect theperformance of the Firm and its lines of business. In addition, as aresult of recent market conditions and events, Congress andregulators have increased their focus on the regulation of financialinstitutions. The Firm's current expectations are for the globaland U.S.&nbsp;economic environments to weaken further and potentiallyfaster, capital markets to remain under stress, for there to be acontinued decline in U.S.&nbsp;housing prices, and for Congress andregulators to continue to adopt legislation and regulations thatcould limit or restrict the Firm's operations, or imposeadditional costs upon the Firm in order to comply with such new lawsor rules. These factors are likely to continue to adversely impactthe Firm's revenue, credit costs, overall business volumes andearnings.Given the potentialstress on the consumer from rising unemployment,the continued downward pressure on housing pricesand the elevated national inventory of unsoldhomes, management remains extremely cautious withrespect to the credit outlook for home equity,mortgage and credit card portfolios. Management expects continued deteriorationin credit trends for the home equity, mortgage and credit card portfolios, whichwill likely require additions to the consumer loanloss allowance in 2009 or beyond. Economic data released in early 2009 indicatedthat housing prices and the labor market have weakened further sinceyear-end, and that deterioration could continue into late 2009.Based on management's current economic outlook,quarterly net charge-offs could, over the next severalquarters, reach $1.0&nbsp;billion to $1.4&nbsp;billion for the home equityportfolio, $375&nbsp;million to $475&nbsp;million for the prime mortgageportfolio, and $375&nbsp;million to $475&nbsp;million for thesubprime mortgage portfolio. Management expects themanaged net charge-off rate for Card Services(excluding the impact resulting from theacquisition of Washington Mutual's bankingoperations) to approach 7% in the first quarter of2009 and likely higher by the end ofthe year depending on unemployment levels. These charge-off rates could increaseeven further if the economic environment continuesto deteriorate&nbsp; Table of Contents Management's discussion and analysisfurther than management's currentexpectations. The wholesale provision for creditlosses and nonperforming assets are likely toincrease over time as a result of thedeterioration in underlying credit conditions.Wholesale net charge-offs in 2008 increased fromhistoric lows in 2007 and are likely to increasematerially in 2009 as a result of increasingweakness in the credit environment.The Investment Bank continues to be negativelyaffected by the disruption in the credit andmortgage markets, as well as by overall lowerlevels of liquidity. The continuation of thesefactors could potentially lead to reduced levels ofclient activity, lower investment banking fees andlower trading revenue. In addition, if the Firm'sown credit spreads tighten, as they did in thefourth quarter of 2008, the change in the fairvalue of certain trading liabilities would alsonegatively affect trading results. The Firm held$12.6&nbsp;billion (gross notional) of legacy leveragedloans and unfunded commitments as held-for-sale asof December&nbsp;31, 2008. Markdowns averaging 45% ofthe gross notional value have been taken on theselegacy positions as of December&nbsp;31, 2008, resultingin a net carrying value of $6.9&nbsp;billion. Leveragedloans and unfunded commitments are difficult tohedge effectively, and if market conditions furtherdeteriorate, additional markdowns may be necessaryon this asset class. The Investment Bank also held,at December&nbsp;31, 2008, an aggregate $6.1&nbsp;billion ofprime and Alt-A mortgage exposure, which is alsodifficult to hedge effectively, and $875&nbsp;million ofsubprime mortgage exposure. In addition, theInvestment Bank had $7.7&nbsp;billion of commercialmortgage exposure. In spite of active hedging,mortgage exposures could be adversely affected byworsening market conditions and further deteriorationin the housing market. The combination of creditcosts and additional markdowns on the various exposures noted abovecould reach or exceed $2.0&nbsp;billion for the first quarter of 2009.Earnings in Commercial Banking and Treasury &Securities Services could decline due to the impact of tighterspreads in the low interest rate environment or a decline in the level of liability balances. Earnings inTreasury & Securities Services and Asset Managementwill likely deteriorate if market levels continueto decline, due to reduced levels of assets undermanagement, supervision and custody. Earnings in the Corporate/PrivateEquity segment could be more volatile due toincreases in the size of the Firm's investmentportfolio, which is largely comprised ofinvestment-grade securities. Private Equity resultsare dependent upon the capital markets and atcurrent market levels, management believesadditional write-downs of $400&nbsp;million or more are likely in thefirst quarter of 2009.Assumingeconomic conditions do not worsen beyond management's currentexpectations, management continues to believe that the net incomeimpact of the acquisition of Washington Mutual'sbanking operations could be approximately $0.50 pershare in 2009; the Bear Stearns merger could contribute $1billion (after-tax) annualized after 2009; and merger-related items, which include both theWashington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearnsmerger, could be approximately $600&nbsp;million(after-tax) in 2009.RecentDevelopmentsOnFebruary&nbsp;23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced theFirm's quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 pershare, effective for the dividend payable April&nbsp;30, 2009 toshareholders of record on April&nbsp;6, 2009. The action will enablethe Firm to retain an additional $5.0&nbsp;billion in common equity peryear. The Firm expects to maintain the dividend at this level for thetime being. The action was taken in order to help ensure that theFirm's balance sheet retained the capital strength necessary toweather a further decline in economic conditions. The Firm intends toreturn to a more normalized dividend payout as soon as feasible afterthe environment has stabilized.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS&nbsp;The following section provides a comparativediscussion of JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated Resultsof Operations on a reported basis for the three-yearperiod ended December&nbsp;31, 2008. Factors that relatedprimarily to a single business segment are discussedin more detail within that business segment. For adiscussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Usedby the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results ofOperations, see pages 107&#150;111 of this AnnualReport.Revenue&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Total net revenue of $67.3&nbsp;billion was down $4.1billion, or 6%, from the prior year. The declineresulted from the extremely challenging businessenvironment for financial services firms in 2008.Principal transactions revenue decreasedsignificantly and included net markdowns onmortgage-related positions and leveraged lendingfunded and unfunded commitments, losses onpreferred securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,and losses on private equity investments. Alsocontributing to the decline in total net revenuewere other losses and markdowns recorded in otherincome, including theFirm's share of Bear Stearns' losses from April 8to May&nbsp;30, 2008. These declines were largely offsetby higher net interest income, proceeds from thesale of Visa shares in its initial public offering,and the gain on the dissolution of the ChasePaymentech Solutions joint venture.Investment banking fees were down from the recordlevel of the prior year due to lower debtunderwriting fees, as well as lower advisory andequity underwriting fees, both of which were atrecord levels in 2007. These declines wereattributable to reduced market activity. For afurther discussion of investment banking fees,which are primarily recorded in IB, see IB segmentresults on pages 42&#150;44 of this Annual Report.In 2008, principal transactions revenue, whichconsists of revenue from the Firm's trading andprivate equity investing activities, declined by$19.7&nbsp;billion from the prior year. Trading revenuedecreased $14.5&nbsp;billion to a negative $9.8&nbsp;billioncompared with a positive $4.7&nbsp;billion in 2007. Thedecline in trading revenue was largely driven byhigher net markdowns of $5.9&nbsp;billion on mortgage-related exposures compared with $1.4&nbsp;billion in theprior year; higher net markdowns of $4.7&nbsp;billion onleveraged lending funded and unfunded commitmentscompared with $1.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year;losses of $1.1&nbsp;billion on preferred securities ofFannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and weaker equitytrading results compared with a record level in2007. In addition, trading revenue was adverselyimpacted by the Bear Stearns merger. Partiallyoffsetting the decline in trading revenue wererecord results in rates and currencies, credittrading, commodities and emerging markets, as wellas strong equity client revenue across products andtotal gains of $2.0&nbsp;billion from the widening ofthe Firm's credit spread on certain structuredliabilities and derivatives, compared with $1.3billion in 2007. Private equity results alsodeclined substantially from the prior year,swinging to losses of $908&nbsp;million in 2008 fromgains of $4.3&nbsp;billion in 2007. In addition, thefirst quarter of 2007 included a fair valueadjustment related to the adoption of SFAS 157. Fora further discussion of principal transactionsrevenue, see IB and Corporate/Private Equitysegment results on pages 42&#150;44 and 61&#150;63,respectively, and Note 6 on pages 146&#150;148 of thisAnnual Report.Lending & deposit-related fees rose from the prioryear, predominantly resulting from higherdeposit-related fees and the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction. For a furtherdiscussion of lending & deposit-related fees, whichare mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB, see the RFSsegment results on pages 45&#150;50, the TSS segmentresults on pages 56&#150;57, and the CB segment resultson pages 54&#150;55 of this Annual Report.The decline in asset management, administration andcommissions revenue compared with 2007 was drivenby lower asset management fees in AM due to lowerperformance fees and the effect of lower markets onassets under management. This decline was partiallyoffset by an increase in commissions revenue relatedpredominantly to higher brokerage transactionvolume within IB's equity markets revenue, whichincluded additions from Bear Stearns' PrimeServices business; and higher administration feesin TSS driven by wider spreads in securitieslending and increased product usage by new andexisting clients. For additional information onthese fees and commissions, see the segmentdiscussions for IB on pages 42&#150;44, RFS on pages45&#150;50, TSS on pages 56&#150;57, and AM on pages 58&#150;60of this Annual Report.The increase in securities gains compared with theprior year was due to the repositioning of theCorporate investment securities portfolio as aresult of lower interest rates as part of managingthe structural interest rate risk of the Firm, andhigher gains from the sale of MasterCard shares.For a further discussion of securities gains, whichare mostly recorded in the Firm's Corporatebusiness, see the Corporate/Private Equity segmentdiscussion on pages 61&#150;63 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased from theprior year, driven by higher net mortgage servicingrevenue, which benefited from an improvement in MSRrisk management results and increased loanservicing revenue. Mortgage production revenueincreased slightly, as the impact of growth inoriginations was predominantly&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisoffset by markdowns on the mortgage warehouseand increased reserves related to the repurchase ofpreviously sold loans. For a discussion of mortgagefees and related income, which is recordedprimarily in RFS' Consumer Lending business, seethe Consumer Lending discussion on pages 47&#150;50 ofthis Annual Report.Credit card income rose compared with the prioryear, driven by increased interchange income due tohigher customer charge volume in CS and higherdebit card transaction volume in RFS, the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction, and increasedservicing fees resulting from a higher level ofsecuritized receivables. These results werepartially offset by increases in volume-drivenpayments to partners and expense related to rewardsprograms. For a further discussion of credit cardincome, see CS' segment results on pages 51&#150;53 ofthis Annual Report.Other income increased compared with the prioryear, due predominantly to the proceeds from thesale of Visa shares in its initial public offeringof $1.5&nbsp;billion, the gain on the dissolution of theChase Paymentech Solutions joint venture of $1.0billion, and gains on sales of certain otherassets. These proceeds and gains were partiallyoffset by markdowns on certain investments,including seed capital in AM; a $464&nbsp;million chargerelated to the offer to repurchase auction-ratesecurities at par; losses of $423&nbsp;millionreflecting the Firm's 49.4% ownership in BearStearns' losses fromApril 8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008; and lower securitizationincome at CS.Net interest income rose from the prior year, duepredominantly to the following: highertrading-related net interest income in IB, theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction, widernet interest spread in Corporate/Private Equity,growth in liability and deposit balances in thewholesale and RFS businesses, higher consumer andwholesale loan balances, and wider spreads onconsumer loans in RFS. The Firm's total averageinterest-earning assets for 2008 were $1.4trillion, up 23% from the prior year, driven byhigher loans, AFS securities, securities borrowed,brokerage receivables and other interest-earningassets balances. The Firm's total averageinterest-bearing liabilities for 2008 were $1.3trillion, up 24% from the prior year, driven byhigher deposits, long-term debt, brokerage payablesand other borrowings balances. The net interestyield on the Firm's interest-earning assets, on afully taxable equivalent basis, was 2.87%, anincrease of 48 basis points from the prior year.2007 compared with 2006Total net revenue of $71.4&nbsp;billion was up $9.4billion, or 15%, from the prior year. Higher netinterest income, very strong private equity gains,record asset management, administration andcommissions revenue, higher mortgage fees andrelated income, and record investment banking feescontributed to the revenue growth. These increaseswere offset partially by lower trading revenue.Investment banking fees grew in 2007 to a levelhigher than the previous record set in 2006. Recordadvisory and equity underwriting fees drove theresults, partially offset by lower debtunderwriting fees. For a further discussion ofinvestment banking fees, which are primarilyrecorded in IB, see IB segment results on pages42&#150;44 of this Annual Report.Principal transactions revenue consists of tradingrevenue and private equity gains. Trading revenuedeclined significantly from the 2006 level,primarily due to net markdowns in IB of $1.4billion on sub-prime positions, including subprimecollateralized debt obligations (&#147;CDOs&#148;), and $1.3billion on leveraged lending funded loans andunfunded commitments. Also in IB, markdowns ofsecuritized products related to nonsubprimemortgages and weak credit trading performance morethan offset record revenue in currencies and strongrevenue in both rates and equities. Equitiesbenefited from strong client activity and recordtrading results across all products. IB's CreditPortfolio results increased compared with the prioryear, primarily driven by higher revenue from riskmanagement activities. The increase in privateequity gains from 2006 reflected a significantlyhigher level of gains, the classification ofcertain private equity carried interest ascompensation expense and a fair value adjustment inthe first quarter of 2007 on nonpublic privateequity investments resulting from the adoption ofSFAS 157 (&#147;Fair Value Measurements&#148;). For a furtherdiscussion of principal transactions revenue, seeIB and Corporate/Private Equity segment results onpages 42&#150;44 and 61&#150;63, respectively, and Note 6on pages 146&#150;148 of this Annual Report.Lending & deposit-related fees rose from the 2006level, driven primarily by higher deposit-relatedfees and the Bank of New York transaction. For afurther discussion of lending & deposit-relatedfees, which are mostly recorded in RFS, TSS and CB,see the RFS segment results on pages 45&#150;50, theTSS segment results on pages 56&#150;57, and the CBsegment results on pages 54&#150;55 of this AnnualReport.Asset management, administration and commissionsrevenue reached a level higher than the previousrecord set in 2006. Increased assets undermanagement and higher performance and placementfees in AM drove the record results. The 18% growthin assets under management from year-end 2006 camefrom net asset inflows and market appreciationacross all segments: Institutional, Retail, PrivateBank and Private Wealth Management. TSS alsocontributed to the rise in asset management,administration and commissions revenue, driven byincreased product usage by new and existing clientsand market appreciation on assets under custody.Finally, commissions revenue increased, due mainlyto higher brokerage transaction volume (primarilyincluded within Fixed Income and Equity Marketsrevenue of IB), which more than offset the sale ofthe insurance business by RFS in the third quarterof 2006 and a charge in the first quarter of 2007resulting from accelerated surrenders of customerannuities. For additional information on these feesand commissions, see the segment discussions for IBon pages 42&#150;44, RFS on pages 45&#150;50, TSS on pages56&#150;57, and AM on pages 58&#150;60 of this AnnualReport.The favorable variance resulting from securitiesgains in 2007 compared with securities losses in2006 was primarily driven by improvements in theresults of repositioning of the Corporateinvestment securities portfolio. Also contributingto the positive variance was a $234&nbsp;million gainfrom the sale of MasterCard shares. For a furtherdiscussion of securities gains (losses), which aremostly recorded in the Firm's Corporate business,see the Corporate/Private Equity segment discussionon pages 61&#150;63 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsMortgage fees and related income increased fromthe prior year as MSRs asset valuation adjustmentsand growth in third-party mortgage loans serviceddrove an increase in net mortgage servicingrevenue. Production revenue also grew, as anincrease in mortgage loan originations and theclassification of certain loan origination costs asexpense (loan origination costs previously nettedagainst revenue commenced being recorded as anexpense in the first quarter of 2007 due to theadoption of SFAS 159) more than offset markdowns onthe mortgage warehouse and pipeline. For adiscussion of mortgage fees and relatedincome, which is recorded primarily in RFS'Consumer Lending business, see the Consumer Lendingdiscussion on pages 47&#150;50 of this Annual Report.Credit card income remained relatively unchangedfrom the 2006 level, as lower servicing fees earnedin connection with securitization activities, whichwere affected unfavorably by higher net creditlosses and narrower loan margins, were offset byincreases in net interchange income earned on theFirm's credit and debit cards. For furtherdiscussion of credit card income, see CS' segmentresults on pages 51&#150;53 of this Annual Report.Other income declined compared with the prioryear, driven by lower gains from loan sales andworkouts, and the absence of a $103&nbsp;million gain inthe second quarter of 2006 related to the sale ofMasterCard shares in its initial publicoffering. (The 2007 gain on the sale of MasterCardshares was recorded in securities gains (losses)&nbsp;asthe shares were transferred to the AFS portfoliosubsequent to the IPO.) Increased income fromautomobile operating leases and higher gains on thesale of leveraged leases and student loanspartially offset the decline.Net interest income rose from the prioryear, primarily due to the following: highertrading-related net interest income, due to a shiftof Interest expense to principal transactionsrevenue (related to certain IB structured notes towhich fair value accounting was elected inconnection with the adoption of SFAS 159); growth inliability and deposit balances in the wholesale andconsumer businesses; a higher level of credit cardloans; the impact of the Bank of New Yorktransaction; and an improvement in Corporate's netinterest spread. The Firm's total averageinterest-earning assets for 2007 were $1.1trillion, up 12% from the prior year. The increasewas primarily driven by higher trading assets &#150;debt instruments, loans, and AFSsecurities, partially offset by a decline ininterests in purchased receivables as a result ofthe restructuring and deconsolidation during thesecond quarter of 2006 of certain multi-sellerconduits that the Firm administered. The netinterest yield on these assets, on a fully taxableequivalent basis, was 2.39%, an increase of 23 basispoints from the prior year, due in part to theadoption of SFAS 159.Provision for credit losses&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007The provision for credit losses in 2008 rose by$14.1&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year due toincreases in both the consumer and wholesaleprovisions. The increase in the consumer provisionreflected higher estimated losses for home equityand mortgages resulting from declining housingprices; an increase in estimated losses for theauto, student and business banking loanportfolios; and an increase in the allowance forloan losses and higher charge-offs of credit cardloans. The increase in the wholesale provision wasdriven by a higher allowance resulting from aweakening credit environment and growth in retainedloans. The wholesale provision in the first quarterof 2008 also included the effect of the transfer of$4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leveragedlending commitments to retained loans fromheld-for-sale. In addition, in 2008 both the consumerand wholesale provisions were affected by a $1.5billion charge to conform assets acquired fromWashington Mutual to the Firm's loan lossmethodologies. For a more detailed discussion of theloan portfolio and the allowance for loanlosses, see the segment discussions for RFS on pages45&#150;50, CS on pages 51&#150;53, IB on pages 42&#150;44 andCB on pages 54&#150;55, and the Credit Risk Managementsection on pages 80&#150;99 of this Annual Report.2007 compared with 2006The provision for credit losses in 2007 rose $3.6billion from the prior year due to increases inboth the consumer and wholesale provisions. Theincrease in the consumer provision from the prioryear was largely dueto an increase in estimated losses related to homeequity, credit card and subprime mortgageloans. Credit card net charge-offs in 2006 benefitedfollowing the change in bankruptcy legislation inthe fourth quarter of 2005. The increase in thewholesale provision from the prior year primarilyreflected an increase in the allowance for&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysiscredit losses due to portfolio activity, whichincluded the effect of a weakening creditenvironment and portfolio growth. For a moredetailed discussion of the loan portfolio and theallowance for loan losses, see the segmentdiscussions for RFS on pages 45&#150;50, CS on pages51&#150;53, IB on pages 42&#150;44, CB on pages 54&#150;55 andCredit Risk Management on pages 80&#150;99 of thisAnnual Report.Noninterest expense&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Total noninterest expense for 2008 was $43.5billion, up $1.8 billion, or 4%, from the prioryear. The increase was driven by the additionaloperating costs related to the Washington Mutualtransaction and Bear Stearns merger, and investmentsin the businesses, partially offset by lowerperformance-based incentives.Compensation expense increased slightly from theprior year predominantly driven by investments inthe businesses, including headcount additionsassociated with the Bear Stearns merger andWashington Mutual transaction, largely offset bylower performance-based incentives.Noncompensation expense increased from the prioryear as a result of the Bear Stearns merger andWashington Mutual transaction. Excluding the effectof these transactions, noncompensation expensedecreased due to a net reduction in other expenserelated to litigation; lower credit card andconsumer lending marketing expense; and a decreasein the amortization of intangibles as certainpurchased credit card relationships were fullyamortized in 2007 and the amortization rate forcore deposit intangibles declined in accordancewith the amortization schedule. These decreases wereoffset partially by increases in professional & outside services, driven by investments in newproduct platforms in TSS, business and volume growthin CS credit card processing and IBbrokerage, clearing and exchange transactionprocessing. Also contributing to the increases werean increase in other expense due to higher mortgagereinsurance losses and mortgage servicing expensedue to increased delinquencies anddefaults in RFS; an increase in technology, communications and equipment expensereflecting higher depreciation expense on ownedautomobiles subject to operating leases in RFS, andother technology-related investments across thebusinesses; and, an increase in occupancy expensepartly for the expansion of RFS' retaildistribution network. For a further discussion ofamortization of intangibles, refer to Note 18 onpages 186&#150;189 of this Annual Report.For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11on page 158 of this Annual Report.2007 compared with 2006Total noninterest expense for 2007 was $41.7billion, up $2.9 billion, or 7%, from the prioryear. The increase was driven by highercompensation expense, as well as investmentsacross the business segments and acquisitions.The increase in compensation expense from 2006 wasprimarily the result of investments andacquisitions in the businesses, includingadditional headcount from the Bank of New Yorktransaction; the classification of certain privateequity carried interest from principaltransactions revenue; the classification of certainloan origination costs (loan origination costspreviously netted against revenue commenced beingrecorded as an expense in the first quarter of2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159); and higherperformance-based incentives. Partially offsettingthese increases were business divestitures andcontinuing business efficiencies.Noncompensation expense increased from 2006 due tohigher professional & outside services primarilyreflecting higher brokerage expense and credit cardprocessing costs resulting from growth intransaction volume, as well as investments in thebusinesses and acquisitions. Also contributing tothe increase was higher other expense due toincreased net legal-related costs, reflecting alower level of insurance recoveries and increasedcosts of credit card-related litigation, and other increasesdriven by business growth and investments in thebusinesses. Other noncompensation expense increasesalso included higher occupancy expense driven byongoing investments in the businesses, inparticular, the retail distribution network and theBank of New York transaction; and higher technology, communications and equipment expense due primarilyto higher depreciation expense on owned automobilessubject to operating leases in RFS, and othertechnology-related investments in the businesses tosupport business growth. These increases were offsetpartially by lower credit card marketingexpense; decreases due to the sale of the insurancebusiness at the beginning of the third quarter of2006 and lower credit card fraud-relatedlosses, both in other expense. In addition, expense ingeneral was reduced by the effect of continuingbusiness efficiencies. For a discussion ofamortization of intangibles, refer to Note 18 onpages 186&#150;189 of this Annual Report.For information on merger costs, refer to Note 11on page 158 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsIncome tax expenseThe Firm's income from continuing operationsbefore income tax expense (benefit), income taxexpense (benefit)&nbsp; and effective tax rate were asfollows for each of the periods indicated.&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2008compared with the prior year was the result ofsignificantly lower reported pretax income combinedwith changes in the proportion of income subject toU.S. federal taxes. Also contributing to the decreasein the effective tax rate was increased businesstax credits and the realization of a $1.1&nbsp;billionbenefit from the release of deferred taxliabilities. These deferred tax liabilities wereassociated with the undistributed earnings ofcertain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to bereinvested indefinitely. These decreases werepartially offset bychanges in state and local taxes, and equity lossesrepresenting the Firm's 49.4% ownership interest inBear Stearns' losses from April 8 to May30, 2008, for which no income tax benefit wasrecorded. For a further discussion of incometaxes, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by theFirm on pages 107&#150;111 and Note 28 on pages197&#150;199 of this Annual Report.2007 compared with 2006The increase in the effective tax rate for 2007, as compared with the prior year, was primarily theresult of higher reported pretax income combinedwith changes in the proportion of income subject tofederal, state and local taxes. Also contributing tothe increase in the effective tax rate was therecognition in 2006 of $367&nbsp;million of benefitsrelated to the resolution of tax audits.Income from discontinued operationsAs aresult of the transaction with The Bank ofNew York on October&nbsp;1, 2006, the results ofoperations of the selected corporate trustbusinesses (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loan agencyand document management services) were reported asdiscontinued operations.Income from discontinued operations in 2006 was duepredominantly to a gain of $622&nbsp;million fromexiting selected corporate trust businesses in thefourth quarter of 2006. No income from discontinuedoperations was recorded in 2008 or 2007.Extraordinary gainThe Firm recorded an extraordinary gain of $1.9billion in 2008 associated with the acquisition ofthe banking operations of Washington Mutual. Thetransaction is being accounted for under thepurchase method of accounting in accordance withSFAS 141. The adjusted fair value of net assets ofthe banking operations, after purchase accountingadjustments, was higher than JPMorgan Chase's purchase price. There were no extraordinary gainsrecorded in 2007 or 2006.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisEXPLANATION AND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM'S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES&nbsp;The Firm prepares its consolidated financialstatements using accounting principles generallyaccepted in the United States of America(&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appear onpages 118&#150;216 of this Annual Report. Thatpresentation, which is referred to as &#147;reportedbasis,&#148; provides the reader with anunderstanding of the Firm's results that can betracked consistently from year to year and enablesa comparison of the Firm's performance with othercompanies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on areported basis, management reviews the Firm'sresults and the results of the lines of business ona &#147;managed&#148; basis, which is a non-GAAP financialmeasure. The Firm's definition of managed basisstarts with the reported U.S. GAAP results andincludes certain reclassifications that assumecredit card loans securitized by CS remain on thebalancesheet and presents revenue on a fullytaxable-equivalent (&#147;FTE&#148;) basis. Theseadjustments do not have any impact on net incomeas reported by the lines of business or by theFirm as a whole.The presentation of CS results on a managed basisassumes that credit card loans that have beensecuritized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140remain on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and thatthe earnings on the securitized loans areclassified in the same manner as the earnings onretained loans recorded on the Consolidated BalanceSheets. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of managedbasis to evaluate the credit performance andoverall financial performance of the entire managedcredit card portfolio. Operations are funded anddecisions are made about allocating resources, suchas employees and capital, based upon managedfinancial information. In addition, the sameunderwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoringThe following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAPresults to managed basis. (Table continues on next page)&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of Contentsare used for both loans on the ConsolidatedBalance Sheets and securitized loans. Althoughsecuritizations result in the sale of credit cardreceivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains theongoing customer relationships, as the customers maycontinue to use their credit cards; accordingly, thecustomer's credit performance will affect both thesecuritized loans and the loans retained on theConsolidated Balance Sheets. JPMorgan Chase believesmanaged basis information is useful toinvestors, enabling them to understand both thecredit risks associated with the loans reported onthe Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Firm'sretained interests in securitized loans. For areconciliation of reported to managed basis resultsfor CS, see CS segment results on pages 51&#150;53 ofthis Annual Report. For information regarding thesecuritization process, and loans and residualinterests sold and securitized, see Note 16 on pages168&#150;176 of this Annual Report.Total net revenue for each of the business segmentsand the Firm is presented on a FTEbasis. Accordingly, revenue from tax-exemptsecurities and investments that receive tax creditsis presented in the managed results on a basiscomparable to taxable securities andinvestments. This non-GAAP financial measure allowsmanagement to assess the comparability of revenuearising from both taxable and tax-exemptsources. The corresponding income tax impact relatedto these items is recorded within income taxexpense.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financialmeasures at the business segment level because itbelieves these other non-GAAP financial measuresprovide information to investors about theunderlying operational performance and trends ofthe particular business segment and thereforefacilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of itscompetitors.(Table continued from previous page)&nbsp;Calculation of certain U.S. GAAP and non-GAAP metricsThe table below reflects the formulas used tocalculate both the following U.S. GAAP andnon-GAAP measures:Return on common equityNet income*/ Average common stockholders' equityReturn on common equity less goodwill(d)Net income*/ Average common stockholders' equity less goodwillReturn on assetsReported: Net income / Total average assetsManaged: Net income / Total average managedassets(e) (including averagesecuritized credit card receivables)Overhead ratioTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisBUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line-of-businessbasis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization ofJPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportablebusiness segments: the Investment Bank, RetailFinancial Services, Card Services, CommercialBanking, Treasury & Securities Services and AssetManagement, as well as a Corporate/Private Equitysegment.The business segments are determined based upon theproducts and services provided, or the type ofcustomer served, and they reflect the manner inwhich financial information is currently evaluatedby management. Results of these lines of businessare presented on a managed basis.Business segment changesCommencing October&nbsp;1, 2008,RFS was reorganized intothe following two reporting segments: RetailBanking and Consumer Lending. Previously, RFSconsisted of three reporting segments: RegionalBanking, Mortgage Banking and Auto Finance. The newRetail Banking reporting segment now comprisesconsumer banking and business banking activities,which previously were reported in Regional Banking.The new Consumer Lending reporting segment nowcomprises: (a) the prior Mortgage Banking and AutoFinance reporting segments,(b) the home equity,student and other lending business activities whichwere previously reported in the Regional Bankingreporting segment and (c)&nbsp;loan activity related toprime mortgages that were originated by RFS, butreported in the Corporate/Private Equity businesssegment. This reorganization is reflected in thisAnnual Report and the financial information forprior periods has been revised to reflect thechanges as if they had been in effect throughoutall periods reported.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended toreflect each segment as if it were essentially astand-alone business. The management reportingprocess that derives business segment resultsallocates income and expense using market-basedmethodologies.Business segment reporting methodologies used bythe Firm are discussed below. The Firm continues toassess the assumptions, methodologies and reportingclassifications used for segment reporting, andfurther refinements may be implemented in futureperiods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sellproducts and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to sharerevenue from those transactions. The segmentresults reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing is used to allocate interestincome and expense to each business and transferthe primary interest rate risk exposures to theTreasury group within the Corporate/Private Equitybusiness segment. The allocation process is uniqueto each business segment and considers the interestrate risk, liquidity risk and regulatoryrequirements of that segment's stand-alone peers.This process is overseen by the Firm'sAsset-Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;). Businesssegments may retain certain interest rateexposures, subject to management approval, thatwould be expected in the normal operation of asimilar peer business.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCapital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital bytaking into consideration stand-alone peercomparisons, economic risk measures and regulatorycapital requirements. The amount of capitalassigned to each business is referred to as equity.Line of business equity increased during the secondquarter of 2008 in IB and AM due to the BearStearns merger and, for AM, the purchase of theadditional equity interest in Highbridge. At theend of the third quarter of 2008, equity wasincreased for each line of business with a viewtoward the future implementation of the new BaselII capital rules. For further details on theserules, see Basel II on page 72 of this AnnualReport. In addition, equity allocated to RFS,CS andCB was increased as a result of the WashingtonMutual transaction. For a further discussion, seeCapital management&#151;Line of business equity on page70 of this Annual Report.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided bysupport units within the Firm, the costs of thosesupport units are allocated to the businesssegments. The expense is allocated based upontheir actual cost or the lower of actual cost ormarket, as well as upon usage of the servicesprovided. In contrast, certain other expenserelated to certain corporate functions, or tocertain technology and operations, are notallocated to the business segments and areretained in Corporate. Retained expense includes:parent company costs that would not be incurred ifthe segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certain corporatestaff, technology and operations allocations withmarket prices; and other one-time items notaligned with the business segments.Segment results &#150; Managed basis(a)(b)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisINVESTMENT BANK&nbsp;J.P. Morgan is one of the world's leadinginvestment banks, with deep client relationshipsand broad product capabilities. The InvestmentBank's clients are corporations, financialinstitutions, governments and institutionalinvestors. The Firm offers a full range ofinvestment banking products and services in allmajor capital markets, including advising oncorporate strategy and structure, capitalraising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management, market-making incash securities and derivative instruments,prime brokerage and research. IB also selectively commits theFirm's own capital to principal investing andtrading activities.OnMay&nbsp;30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase merged with The Bear StearnsCompanies, Inc. The merger provided IB with a leading global primebrokerage business and expanded the existing energy platform. It alsostrengthened IB's franchise in Equity and Fixed Income Markets, as wellas client coverage.Selected income statement data&nbsp;The following table provides IB's total net revenue by business segment.&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net loss was $1.2&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $4.3billion from the prior year, driven by lower totalnet revenue, a higher provision for credit lossesand higher noninterest expense, partially offset bya reduction in deferred tax liabilities on overseasearnings.Total net revenue was $12.2&nbsp;billion, down $6.0billion, or 33%, from the prior year. Investmentbanking fees were $5.9&nbsp;billion, down 11% from theprior year, driven by lower debt underwriting andadvisory fees reflecting reduced market activity.Debt underwriting fees were $2.2&nbsp;billion, down 18%from the prior year, driven by lower loansyndication and bond underwriting fees. Advisoryfees of $2.0&nbsp;billion declined 12% from the prioryear. Equity underwriting fees were $1.7&nbsp;billion,up 2%from the prior year driven by improved marketshare. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $2.0billion, compared with $6.3&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. The decrease was driven by $5.9&nbsp; Table of Contentsbillion of net markdowns on mortgage-relatedexposures and $4.7&nbsp;billion of net markdowns onleveraged lending funded and unfunded commitments.Revenue was also adversely impacted by additionallosses and cost to risk reduce related to BearStearns' positions. These results were offset byrecord performance in rates and currencies, credittrading, commodities and emerging markets as wellas $814&nbsp;million of gains from the widening of theFirm's credit spread on certain structuredliabilities and derivatives. Equity Markets revenuewas $3.6&nbsp;billion, down 7% from the prior year,reflecting weak trading results, partially offsetby strong client revenue across products includingprime services, as well as $510&nbsp;million of gainsfrom the widening of the Firm's credit spread oncertain structured liabilities and derivatives.Credit portfolio revenue was $739&nbsp;million, down44%, driven by losses from widening counterpartycredit spreads.The provision for creditlosses was $2.0&nbsp;billion,an increase of $1.4&nbsp;billion from the prior year,predominantly reflecting a higher allowance forcredit losses, driven by a weakening creditenvironment, as well as the effect of the transferof $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leveragedlending commitments to retained loans fromheld-for-sale in the first quarter of 2008. Netcharge-offs for the year were $105&nbsp;million,compared with $36&nbsp;million in the prior year. Totalnonperforming assets were $2.5&nbsp;billion, an increaseof $2.0&nbsp;billion compared with the prior year,reflecting a weakening credit environment. Theallowance for loan losses to average loans was4.71% for 2008, compared with a ratio of 2.14% inthe prior year.Noninterest expense was $13.8&nbsp;billion, up $770million, or 6%,from the prior year, reflectinghigher noncompensation expense driven primarily byadditional expense relating to the Bear Stearnsmerger, off-set partially by lowerperformance-based compensation expense.Return on equity was a negative 5% on $26.1&nbsp;billionof average allocated capital, compared with 15% on$21.0&nbsp;billion in the prior year.2007 compared with 2006Net income was $3.1&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $535million, or 15%, from the prior year. The decreasereflected lower fixed income revenue, a higherprovision for credit losses and increasednoninterest expense, partially offset by recordinvestment banking fees and equity markets revenue.Total net revenue was $18.2&nbsp;billion, down $663million, or 4%,from the prior year. Investmentbanking fees were $6.6&nbsp;billion, up 19% from theprior year, driven by recordfees across advisory and equity underwriting,partially offset by lower debt underwriting fees.Advisory fees were $2.3&nbsp;billion, up 37%, and equityunderwriting fees were $1.7&nbsp;billion, up 45%; bothwere driven by record performance across allregions. Debt underwriting fees of $2.6&nbsp;billiondeclined 3%, reflecting lower loan syndication andbond underwriting fees, which were negativelyaffected by market conditions in the second half ofthe year. Fixed Income Markets revenue decreased27% from the prior year. The decrease was due tonet markdowns of $1.4&nbsp;billion on subprimepositions, including subprime CDOs and netmarkdowns of $1.3&nbsp;billion on leveraged lendingfunded loans and unfunded commitments. Fixed IncomeMarkets revenue also decreased due to markdowns insecuritized products on nonsubprime mortgages andweak credit trading performance. These lowerresults were offset partially by record revenue incurrencies and strong revenue in rates. EquityMarkets revenue was $3.9&nbsp;billion, up 13%, benefitingfrom strong client activity and record tradingresults across all products. Credit Portfoliorevenue was $1.3&nbsp;billion, up 19%, primarily due tohigher revenue from risk management activities,partially offset by lower gains from loan sales andworkouts.The provision for credit losses was $654&nbsp;million,an increase of $463&nbsp;million from the prior year.The change was due to a net increase of $532million in the allowance for credit losses,primarily due to portfolio activity, which includedthe effect of a weakening credit environment, andan increase in allowance for unfunded leveragedlending commitments, as well as portfolio growth.In addition, there were $36&nbsp;million of netcharge-offs in 2007, compared with $31&nbsp;million ofnet recoveries in the prior year. The allowance forloan losses to average loans was 2.14% for2007, compared with a ratio of 1.79% in the prioryear.Noninterest expense was $13.1&nbsp;billion, up $214million, or 2%, from the prior year.Return on equity was 15% on $21.0&nbsp;billion ofallocated capital compared with 18% on $20.8billion in 2006.Selected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSelected metrics&nbsp;Market shares and rankings(a)&nbsp;According to Thomson Reuters, in 2008, the Firmimproved its positions to #1 in Global Debt,Equity and Equity-related transactions and GlobalEquity and Equity-related transactions; andimproved its position to #2 in Global Long-termDebt and Global Announced M&A. The Firm maintainedits #1 position in Global Syndicated Loans.According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1in Investment Banking fees generated during2008, based upon revenue.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES&nbsp;Retail Financial Services, which includesthe Retail Banking and Consumer Lendingreporting segments, serves consumers andbusinesses through multiple channels.Customers can use more than 5,400 bank branches(third-largest nationally),14,500 ATMs(second-largest nationally) as well as onlineand mobile banking. More than 21,400 branchsalespeople assist customers with checking andsavings accounts, mortgages, home equity andbusiness loans,and investments across the23-state footprint from New York and Florida toCalifornia. Consumers also can obtain loansthrough more than 16,000 auto dealerships and4,800 schools and universities nationwide.On September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired thebanking operations of Washington Mutual from theFDIC for $1.9&nbsp;billion through a purchase ofsubstantially all of the assets and assumption ofspecified liabilities of Washington Mutual.Washington Mutual's banking operations consistedof a retail bank network of 2,244 branches, anationwide credit card lending business, amulti-family and commercial real estate lendingbusiness, and nationwide mortgage bankingactivities. The transaction expanded the Firm'sU.S. consumer branch network in California,Florida, Washington,Georgia, Idaho, Nevada and Oregon and created thenation's third-largest branch network.During the first quarter of 2006, RFS completed thepurchase of Collegiate Funding Services, whichcontributed a student loan servicing capability andprovided an entry into the Federal Family EducationLoan Program consolidation market. On July1, 2006, RFS sold its life insurance and annuityunderwriting businesses to Protective LifeCorporation. On October&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chasecompleted the Bank of New York transaction,significantly strengthening RFS' distributionnetwork in the New York tri-state area.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net income was $880&nbsp;million, a decrease of $2.0&nbsp;billion, or 70%, from the prior year, as a significant increase inthe provision for credit losses was partially offset by positive MSR risk management results andthe positive impact of the Washington Mutual transaction.Total net revenue was $23.5&nbsp;billion,an increase of $6.2&nbsp;billion, or 36%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $14.2&nbsp;billion, up $3.6&nbsp;billion, or 35%, benefiting from the Washington Mutualtransaction, wider loan and deposit spreads, and higher loan and deposit balances. Noninterestrevenue was $9.4&nbsp;billion, up $2.6&nbsp;billion, or 38%, as positive MSR risk management results, theimpact of the Washington Mutual transaction, higher mortgage origination volume and higherdeposit-related fees were partially offset by an increase in reserves related to the repurchase ofpreviously sold loans and markdowns on the mortgage warehouse.The provision for credit losses was $9.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $7.3&nbsp;billion from the prior year.Delinquency rates have increased due to overall weak economic conditions, while housing pricedeclines have continued to drive increased loss severities, particularly for high loan-to-valuehome equity and mortgage loans. The provision includes $4.7&nbsp;billion in additions to the allowancefor loan losses for the heritage Chase home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home equity netcharge-offs were $2.4&nbsp;billion (2.23% net charge-off rate; 2.39% excluding purchased credit-impairedloans), compared with $564&nbsp;million (0.62% net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Subprimemortgage net charge-offs were $933&nbsp;million (5.49% net charge-off rate; 6.10% excluding purchasedcredit-impaired loans),compared with $157&nbsp;million (1.55% net charge-off rate) in the prior year.Prime mortgage net charge-offs were $526&nbsp;million (1.05% net charge-off rate; 1.18% excludingpurchased credit-impaired loans), compared with $33&nbsp;million (0.13% net charge-off rate) in the prioryear. The provision for credit losses was also affected by an increase in estimated losses for theauto, student and business banking loan portfolios.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisTotal noninterest expense was $12.1&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $2.2&nbsp;billion, or 22%, from the prioryear, reflecting the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction, higher mortgage reinsurancelosses, higher mortgage servicing expense andinvestments in the retail distribution network.2007 compared with 2006Net income was $2.9&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $288million, or 9%, from the prior year, as a declinein Consumer Lending was offset partially byimproved results in Retail Banking.Total net revenue was $17.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of$2.5&nbsp;billion, or 17%, from the prior year. Netinterest income was $10.5&nbsp;billion, up $361&nbsp;million,or 4%, due to the Bank of New York transaction,wider loan spreads and higher deposit balances.These benefits were offset partially by the sale ofthe insurance business and a shift tonarrower&#150;spread deposit products. Noninterestrevenue was $6.8&nbsp;billion, up $2.1&nbsp;billion,benefiting from positive MSR risk managementresults; an increase in deposit-related fees; andthe absence of a prior-year $233&nbsp;million lossrelated to $13.3&nbsp;billion of mortgage loanstransferred to held-for-sale. Noninterest revenuealso benefited from the classification of certainmortgage loan origination costs as expense (loanorigination costs previously netted against revenuecommenced being recorded as an expense in the firstquarter of 2007 due to the adoption of SFAS 159).The provision for credit losses was $2.6&nbsp;billion,compared with $561&nbsp;million in the prior year. Thecurrent year provision includes a net increase of$1.0&nbsp;billion in the allowance for loan lossesrelated to home equity loans as continued weakhousing prices have resulted in an increase inestimated losses for high loan-to-value loans. Homeequity net charge-offs were $564&nbsp;million (0.62% netcharge-off rate), compared with $143&nbsp;million (0.18%net charge-off rate) in the prior year. Inaddition, the current-year provision includes a$166&nbsp;million increase in the allowance for loanlosses related to subprime mortgage loans,reflecting an increase in estimated losses andgrowth in the portfolio. Subprime mortgage netcharge-offs were $157&nbsp;million (1.55% net charge-offrate),compared with $47&nbsp;million (0.34% netcharge-off rate) in the prior year.Total noninterest expense was $9.9&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $978&nbsp;million, or 11%, from the prioryear due to the Bank of New York transaction; theclassification of certain loan origination costs asexpense due to the adoption of SFAS 159;investments in the retail distribution network; andhigher mortgage production and servicing expense.These increases were offset partially by the saleof the insurance business.Selected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of Contents&nbsp;Retail BankingSelected income statement data&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Retail Banking net income was $3.0&nbsp;billion, up $737million, or 33%, from the prior year. Total netrevenue was $12.6&nbsp;billion, up $2.7&nbsp;billion, or 27%,reflecting the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, wider deposit spreads, higherdeposit-related fees, and higher deposit balances.The provision for credit losses was $449&nbsp;million,compared with $79&nbsp;million in the prior year,reflecting an increase in the allowance for loanlosses for Business Banking loans due to higherestimated losses on the portfolio. Noninterestexpense was $7.2&nbsp;billion, up $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 17%,from the prior year, due to the Washington Mutualtransaction and investments in the retaildistribution network.2007 compared with 2006Retail Banking net income was $2.2&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $323&nbsp;million, or 17%, from the prioryear. Total net revenue was $10.0&nbsp;billion, up $1.0billion, or 11%, benefiting from the following: theBank of New Yorktransaction; increased deposit-related fees; andgrowth in deposits. These benefits were offsetpartially by a shift to narrower-spread depositproducts. The provision for credit losses was $79million, compared with $114&nbsp;million in the prioryear. Noninterest expense was $6.2&nbsp;billion, up $499million, or 9%, from the prior year, driven by theBank of New York transaction and investments in theretail distribution network.Selected metrics&nbsp;Consumer LendingSelected income statement data&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2008 compared with 2007Consumer Lending net loss was $2.1&nbsp;billion,compared with net income of $680&nbsp;million in theprior year. Total net revenue was $10.9&nbsp;billion, up$3.6&nbsp;billion, or 48%, driven by higher mortgagefees and related income (due primarily to positiveMSR risk management results), the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction, higher loan balancesand wider loan spreads.The increase in mortgage fees and related incomewas primarily driven by higher net mortgageservicing revenue. Mortgage production revenue of$898&nbsp;million was up $18&nbsp;million, as higher mortgageorigination volume was predominantly offset by anincrease in reserves related to the repurchase ofpreviously sold loans and markdowns of the mortgagewarehouse. Net mortgage servicing revenue (whichincludes loan servicing revenue, MSR riskmanagement results and other changes in fair value)was $2.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.5&nbsp;billion, or124%, from the prior year. Loan servicing revenuewas $3.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $924&nbsp;million.Third-party loans serviced increased 91%, primarilydue to the Washington Mutual transaction. MSR riskmanagement results were $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with$411&nbsp;million in the prior year. Other changes infair value of the MSR asset were negative $2.1billion, compared with negative $1.5&nbsp;billion in theprior year.The provision for credit losses was $9.5&nbsp;billion,compared with $2.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Theprovision reflected weakness in the home equity andmortgage portfolios (see Retail Financial Servicesdiscussion of the provision for credit losses forfurther detail).Noninterest expense was $4.8&nbsp;billion, up $1.1billion, or 30%, from the prior year, reflectinghigher mortgage reinsurance losses, the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction and higherservicing expense due to increased delinquenciesand defaults.2007 compared with 2006Consumer Lending net income was $680&nbsp;million, adecrease of $611&nbsp;million, or 47%, from the prioryear. Total net revenue was $7.3&nbsp;billion, up $1.5billion, or 25%, benefiting from positive MSR riskmanagement results, increased mortgage productionrevenue, wider loan spreads and the absence of aprior-year $233&nbsp;million loss related to $13.3billion of mortgage loans transferred toheld-for-sale. These benefits were offset partiallyby the sale of the insurance business.Mortgage production revenue was $880&nbsp;million, up$576&nbsp;million, reflecting the impact of an increasein mortgage loan originations and theclassification of certain loan origination costs asexpense (loan origination costs previously nettedagainst revenue commenced being recorded as anexpense in the first quarter of 2007 due to theadoption of SFAS 159).These benefits were offsetpartially by markdowns of $241&nbsp;million on themortgage warehouse and pipeline. Net mortgageservicing revenue, which includes loan servicingrevenue, MSR risk management results and otherchanges in fair value, was $1.2&nbsp;billion, comparedwith $314&nbsp;million in the prior year. Loan servicingrevenue of $2.3&nbsp;billion increased $195&nbsp;million on17% growth in third-party loans serviced. MSR riskmanagement results were positive $411&nbsp;millioncompared with negative $385&nbsp;million in the prioryear. Other changes in fair value of the MSR assetwere negative $1.5&nbsp;billion, compared with negative$1.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year.The provision for credit losses was $2.5&nbsp;billion,compared with $447&nbsp;million in the prior year. Theincrease in the provision was due to the homeequity and subprime mortgage portfolios (see RetailFinancial Services discussion of the provision forcredit losses for further detail).Noninterest expense was $3.7&nbsp;billion, an increaseof $479&nbsp;million, or 15%. The increase reflected theclassification of certain loan origination costsdue to the adoption of SFAS 159; higher servicingcosts due to increased delinquencies and defaults;higher production expense due to growth inoriginations; and increased depreciation expense onowned automobiles subject to operating leases.These increases were offset partially by the saleof the insurance business.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of Contents&nbsp;Credit data and quality statistics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Mortgage origination channels comprise the following:Retail &#150; Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a homethrough direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by theFirm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowersare frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.Wholesale &#150; A third-party mortgagebroker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers are independentloan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowersbut do not provide funding for loans.Correspondent &#150; Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks andother financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions(&#147;CNT&#148;) &#150; Mid-tolarge-sized mortgage lenders, banks and bank-owned companiesthat sell loans or servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis,excluding bulk servicing transactions.Production revenue &#150;Includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of prime and subprime mortgage loans and otherproduction-related fees.Netmortgage servicing revenue components: Servicingrevenue &#150; Represents all gross income earned from servicingthird-party mortgage loans, including stated service fees, excessservice fees, late fees and other ancillary fees.Changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs orassumptions in model &#150; Represents MSR asset fair valueadjustments due to changes in market-based inputs, such asinterest rates and volatility, as well as updates to valuationassumptions used in the valuation model.Changesin MSR asset fair value due to other changes &#150;Includes changes in the MSR value due to modeled servicingportfolio runoff (or time decay).Derivative valuation adjustments andother &#150; Changes inthe fair value of derivative instruments used to offset the impactof changes in market-based inputs to the MSR valuation model.MSRrisk management results &#150; Includes changes in MSRasset fair value due to inputs or assumptions and derivative valuation adjustments and other.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCARD SERVICES&nbsp;Chase Card Services is one of the nation's largest cardissuers with more than 168&nbsp;million credit cards in circulation and more than $190&nbsp;billion inmanaged loans.Customers used Chase cards to meet more than $368billion worth of their spending needs in 2008. Chase hasa market leadership position in building loyalty andrewards programs with many of the world's mostrespected brands and through its proprietary products,which include the Chase Freedom program.Through its merchant acquiring business, ChasePaymentech Solutions, Chase is one of the leadingprocessors of MasterCard and Visa payments.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managed basis&#148; to evaluatethe credit performance of its credit card loans, both loans on the balance sheet and loans thathave been securitized. For further information, see Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm'suse of non-GAAP financial measures on pages 38&#150;39 of this Annual Report.Managed results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations ontotal net revenue, the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs andloan receivables. Securitization does not change reported net income;however, it does affect the classification of items on the ConsolidatedStatements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets.The following discussion of CS' financial results reflects the acquisition of Washington Mutual'scredit card operations, including $28.3billion of managed credit card loans, as a result of the Washington Mutual transaction on September&nbsp;25, 2008, andthe dissolution of the ChasePaymentech Solutions joint venture on November&nbsp;1, 2008. See Note2 on pages 123&#150;128 of this Annual Report for more informationconcerning these transactions.Selected income statement data &#150; managed basis2008 compared with 2007Net income was $780&nbsp;million, a decline of $2.1billion, or 73%, from the prior year. The decreasewas driven by a higher provision for credit losses,partially offset by higher total net revenue.Average managed loans were $162.9&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $13.5&nbsp;billion, or 9%, from the prioryear. Excluding Washington Mutual, average managedloans were $155.9&nbsp;billion. End-of-period managedloans were $190.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $33.3billion, or 21%, from the prior year. ExcludingWashington Mutual, end-of-period managed loans were$162.1&nbsp;billion. The increases in both averagemanaged loans and end-of-period managed loans werepredominantly due to the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction and organic portfolio growth.Managed total net revenue was $16.5&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $1.2&nbsp;billion, or 8%, from the prioryear. Net interest income was $13.8&nbsp;billion, up$1.6&nbsp;billion, or 13%, from the prior year, drivenby the Washington Mutual transaction, higheraverage managed loan balances, and wider loanspreads. These benefits were offset partially bythe effect of higher revenue reversals associatedwith higher charge-offs. Noninterest revenue was$2.7&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $327&nbsp;million, or 11%,from the prior year, driven by increased rewardsexpense, lower securitization income driven byhigher credit losses, and higher volume-drivenpayments to partners; these were largely offset byincreased interchange income, benefiting from a 4%increase in charge volume, as well as the impact ofthe Washington Mutual transaction.The managed provision for credit losses was $10.1billion, an increase of $4.3&nbsp;billion, or 76%, fromthe prior year, due to an increase of $1.7&nbsp;billionin the allowance for loan losses and a higher levelof charge-offs. The managed net charge-off rateincreased to5.01%, up from 3.68% in the prior year. The 30-daymanaged delinquency rate was 4.97%, up from 3.48%in the prior year. Excluding Washington Mutual, themanaged net charge-off rate was 4.92% and the30-day delinquency rate was 4.36%.Noninterest expense was $5.1&nbsp;billion, an increaseof $226&nbsp;million, or 5%, from the prior year,predominantly due to the impact of the WashingtonMutual transaction.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2007 compared with 2006Net income of $2.9&nbsp;billion was down $287&nbsp;million,or 9%, from the prior year. Prior-year resultsbenefited from significantly lower net charge-offsfollowing thechange in bankruptcy legislation in the fourthquarter of 2005. The increase in net charge-offswas offset partially by higher revenue.End-of-period managed loans of $157.1&nbsp;billionincreased $4.2&nbsp;billion, or 3%, from the prior year.Average managed loans of $149.3&nbsp;billion increased$8.2&nbsp;billion, or 6%, from the prior year. Theincreases in both end-of-period and average managedloans resulted from organic growth.Managed total net revenue was $15.2&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $490&nbsp;million, or 3%, from the prioryear. Net interest income was $12.2&nbsp;billion, up$388&nbsp;million, or 3%, from the prior year. Theincrease in net interest income was driven by ahigher level of fees and higher average loanbalances. These benefits were offset partially bynarrower loan spreads, the discontinuation ofcertain billing practices (including theelimination of certain over-limit fees and thetwo-cycle billing method for calculating financecharges beginning in the second quarter of 2007)and the effect of higher revenue reversalsassociated with higher charge-offs. Noninterestrevenue was $3.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $102million, or 3%, from the prior year. The increasereflected a higher level of fee-based revenue andincreased net interchange income, which benefitedfrom higher charge volume. Charge volume growth was4%, reflecting a 9% increase in sales volume,offset primarily by a lower level of balancetransfers, the result of more targeted marketingefforts.The managed provision for credit losses was $5.7billion, an increase of $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 24%, fromthe prior year. The increase was primarily due to ahigher level of net charge-offs (the prior yearbenefited from the change in bankruptcy legislationin the fourth quarter of 2005) and an increase inthe allowance for loan losses, driven by higherestimated net charge-offs in the portfolio. Themanaged net charge-off rate was 3.68%, up from3.33% in the prior year. The 30-day manageddelinquency rate was 3.48%, up from 3.13% in theprior year.Noninterest expense was $4.9&nbsp;billion, a decrease of$172&nbsp;million, or 3%, compared with the prior year,primarily due to lower marketing expense and lowerfraud-related expense, partially offset by highervolume-related expense.The following are brief descriptions of selected business metrics within Card Services.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metrics&nbsp;The financial information presented belowreconciles reported basis and managed basis todisclose the effect of securitizations.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCOMMERCIAL BANKING&nbsp;Commercial Banking serves more than 26,000clients nationally, including corporations,municipalities, financial institutions andnot-for-profit entities with annual revenuegenerally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2billion, and nearly 30,000 real estateinvestors/owners.Delivering extensive industry knowledge, localexpertise and dedicated service, CB partnerswith the Firm's other businesses to providecomprehensive solutions, including lending,treasury services, investment banking and assetmanagement, to meet its clients' domestic andinternational financial needs.On September&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired thebanking operations of Washington Mutual from theFDIC, adding approximately $44.5&nbsp;billion in loansto the Commercial Term Lending, Real EstateBanking and Other businesses in CommercialBanking. On October&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chasecompleted the acquisition of The Bank of NewYork's consumer, business banking andmiddle-market banking businesses, addingapproximately $2.3&nbsp;billion in loans and$1.2&nbsp;billion in deposits in Commercial Banking.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $305million, or 27%, from the prior year, due togrowth in total net revenue including the impactof the Washington Mutual transaction, partiallyoffset by a higher provision for credit losses.Record total net revenue of $4.8&nbsp;billion increased$674&nbsp;million, or 16%. Net interest income of $3.3billion increased $456&nbsp;million, or 16%, driven bydouble-digit growth in liability and loan balancesand the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction, partially offset by spread compressionin the liability and loan portfolios. Noninterestrevenue was $1.5&nbsp;billion, up $218&nbsp;million, or 17%,due to higher deposit and lending-related fees.On a client segment basis, Middle Market Bankingrevenue was $2.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $250million, or 9%, from the prior year duepredominantly to higher deposit-related fees andgrowth in liability and loan balances. Revenue fromCommercial Term Lending, a new client segmentestablished as a result of the Washington Mutualtransaction encompassing multi-family andcommercial mortgage loans, was $243&nbsp;million.Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $921&nbsp;million, anincrease of $106&nbsp;million, or 13%, reflecting higherloan balances, investment banking revenue, anddeposit-related fees. Real Estate Banking revenueof $413&nbsp;million decreased $8&nbsp;million, or 2%.Provision for credit losses was $464&nbsp;million, anincrease of $185&nbsp;million, or 66%, compared with theprior year, reflecting a weakening creditenvironment and loan growth. Net charge-offs were$288&nbsp;million (0.35% net charge-off rate), comparedwith $44&nbsp;million (0.07% net charge-off rate) in theprior year, predominantly related to an increase inreal estate charge-offs. The allowance for loanlosses increased $1.1&nbsp;billion, which primarilyreflected the impact of the Washington Mutualtransaction. Nonperforming assets were $1.1billion, an increase of $1.0&nbsp;billion compared withthe prior year, predominantly reflecting theWashington Mutual transaction and higher realestate-related balances.Noninterest expense was $1.9&nbsp;billion, a decrease of$12&nbsp;million, or 1%, from the prior year, due tolower performance-based incentive compensation andvolume-based charges from service providers,predominantly offset by the impact of theWashington Mutual transaction.2007 compared with 2006Net income was $1.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $124million, or 12%, from the prior year due primarilyto growth in total net revenue, partially offset byhigher provision for credit losses.Record total net revenue of $4.1&nbsp;billion increased $303&nbsp;million, or8%. Net interest income of $2.8&nbsp;billion increased$113&nbsp;million, or 4%, driven by double-digit growthin liability balances and loans, which reflectedorganic growth and the Bank of New Yorktransaction, largely offset by the continued shiftto narrower-spread liability products and spreadcompression in the loan and liability portfolios.Noninterest revenue was $1.3&nbsp;billion, up $190million, or 18%, due to increased deposit-relatedfees, higher investment banking revenue, and gainson sales of securities acquired in the satisfactionof debt.On a segment basis, Middle Market Banking revenuewas $2.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $154&nbsp;million, or6%, primarily due to the Bank of New Yorktransaction, higher deposit-related fees and growthin investment banking revenue. Mid-CorporateBanking revenue was $815&nbsp;million, an increase of$159&nbsp;million, or 24%, reflecting higher&nbsp; Table of Contentslending revenue, investment banking revenue,and gains on sales of securities acquired in thesatisfaction of debt. Real Estate Banking revenueof $421&nbsp;million decreased $37&nbsp;million, or 8%.Provision for credit losses was $279&nbsp;million,compared with $160&nbsp;million in the prior year. Theincrease in the allowance for credit lossesreflected portfolio activity including slightlylower credit quality as well as growth in loanbalances. The allowance for loan losses to averageloans retained was 2.81%, compared with 2.86% inthe prior year.Noninterest expense was $2.0&nbsp;billion, a decreaseof $21&nbsp;million, or 1%, largely due to lowercompensation expense driven by the absence ofprior-year expense from the adoption of SFAS 123R,partially offset by expense growth related to theBank of New York transaction.Selected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisTREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES&nbsp;TSS is a global leader in transaction, investment and information services. TSS is one of theworld's largest cash management providers and a leading global custodian. TS provides cashmanagement, trade, wholesale card and liquidity products and services to small and mid-sizedcompanies, multinational corporations, financial institutions and government entities. TS partnerswith the Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Services and Asset Management businesses to serveclients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenue is included in other segments' results. WSSholds, values, clears and services securities, cash and alternative investments for investors andbroker-dealers, and manages depositary receipt programs globally.As a result of the transaction with the Bank of New York on October1, 2006, selected corporate trust businesses were transferred from TSS to the Corporate/PrivateEquity segment and are reported in discontinued operations.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net income was a record $1.8&nbsp;billion, an increase of $370&nbsp;million, or 26%, from the prior year,driven by higher total net revenue. This increase was largely offset by higher noninterest expense.Total net revenue was a record $8.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.2&nbsp;billion, or 17%, from the prioryear. Worldwide Securities Services posted record net revenue of $4.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $647million, or 16%, from the prior year. The growth was driven by wider spreads in securities lending,foreign exchange and liability products, increased product usage by new and existing clients(largely in custody, fund services, alternative investment services and depositary receipts) andhigher liability balances, reflecting increased client deposit activity resulting from recentmarket conditions. These benefits were offset partially by market depreciation. Treasury Servicesposted record net revenue of $3.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $542&nbsp;million, or 18%, reflecting higherliability balances and volume growth in electronic funds transfer products and trade loans. Revenuegrowth from higher liability balances reflects increased client deposit activity resulting fromrecent market conditions as well as organic growth. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includesTreasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines of business, grew to $11.1&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $1.5&nbsp;billion, or 16%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to $6.5&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $869&nbsp;million, or 15%.Noninterest expense was $5.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of $643&nbsp;million, or 14%, from the prior year,reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth as well as continued investment innew product platforms.2007 compared with 2006Net income was a record $1.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $307&nbsp;million, or 28%, from the prior year,driven by record total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTotal net revenue was $6.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of $836&nbsp;million, or 14%, from the prior year.Worldwide Securities Services net revenue of $3.9&nbsp;billion was up $615&nbsp;million, or 19%. The growthwas driven by increased product usage by new and existing clients (primarily custody, securitieslending, depositary receipts and fund services), market appreciation on assets under custody, andwider spreads on securities lending. These gains were offset partially by spread compression onliability products. Treasury Services net revenue was $3.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $221&nbsp;million, or8%, from the prior year. The results were driven by growth in electronic transaction volumes andhigher liability balances, offset partially by a shift to narrower-spread liability products. TSSfirmwide net revenue, which includes Treasury Services net revenue recorded in other lines ofbusiness, grew to $9.6&nbsp;billion, up$1.0&nbsp;billion, or 12%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenue grew to$5.6&nbsp;billion, up $391&nbsp;million, or 7%.Noninterest expense was $4.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $314&nbsp;million, or 7%, from the prior year,reflecting higher expense related to business and volume growth, as well as investment in newproduct platforms.Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metrics include revenue recorded in the CB, Retail Bankingand AM lines of business and excludes foreign exchange (&#147;FX&#148;) revenue recorded in IB forTSS-related FX activity. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products andrevenue, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenue and overheadratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order tounderstand the aggregate TSS business.Selected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisASSET MANAGEMENT&nbsp;AM, with assets under supervision of $1.5 trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealthmanagement. AM clients include institutions, retail investors and high-net-worth individuals inevery major market throughout the world. AM offers global investment management in equities, fixedincome, real estate, hedge funds, private equity and liquidity, including money market instrumentsand bank deposits. AM also provides trust and estate, banking and brokerage services tohigh-net-worth clients, and retirement services for corporations and individuals. The majority ofAM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.On May&nbsp;30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase merged with The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc. The merger resulted inthe addition of a new client segment, Bear Stearns Brokerage, but did not materially affectbalances or business metrics.Selected income statement data&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net income was $1.4&nbsp;billion, a decline of $609&nbsp;million, or 31%, from the prior year, driven bylower total net revenue offset partially by lower noninterest expense.Total net revenue was $7.6&nbsp;billion, a decrease of $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 12%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $6.1&nbsp;billion, a decline of $1.4&nbsp;billion, or 19%, due to lower performancefees and the effect of lower markets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seedcapital investments. The lower results were offset partially by the benefit of the Bear Stearnsmerger and increased revenue from net asset inflows. Net interest income was $1.5&nbsp;billion, up $358million, or 31%, from the prior year, due to higher deposit and loan balances and wider depositspreads.Private Bank revenue grew 9% to $2.6&nbsp;billion, due to increased deposit and loan balances and netasset inflows, partially offset by the effect of lower markets and lower performance fees.Institutional revenue declined 30% to $1.8&nbsp;billion due to lower performance fees, partially offsetby net liquidity inflows. Retail revenue declined 33% to $1.6&nbsp;billion due to the effect of lowermarkets, including the impact of lower market valuations of seed capital investments and net equityoutflows. Private Wealth Management revenue grew 4% to $1.4&nbsp;billion due to higher deposit and loanbalances. Bear Stearns Brokerage contributed $237&nbsp;million to revenue.The provision for credit losses was $85&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $18&nbsp;million in theprior year, reflecting an increase in loan balances, higher net charge-offs and a weakening creditenvironment.Noninterest expense was $5.3&nbsp;billion, down $217&nbsp;million, or 4%, compared with the prior year due tolower performance-based compensation, largely offset by the effect of the Bear Stearns merger andhigher compensation expense resulting from increased average headcount.2007 compared with 2006Net income was a record $2.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $557&nbsp;million, or 40%, from the prior year.Results benefited from record total net revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.Total net revenue was $8.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.8&nbsp;billion, or 27%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue, primarily fees and commissions, was $7.5&nbsp;billion, up $1.7&nbsp;billion, or 29%,largely due to increased assets under management and higher performance and placement fees. Netinterest income was $1.2&nbsp;billion, up $189&nbsp;million, or 19%, from the prior year, largely due tohigher deposit and loan balances.Institutional revenue grew 28% to $2.5&nbsp;billion, due to net asset inflows and performance fees.Private Bank revenue grew 40% to$2.4&nbsp;billion, due to higher assets under management, performance and placement fees, and increasedloan and deposit balances. Retail revenue grew 28%, to $2.4&nbsp;billion, primarily due to marketappreciation and net asset inflows. Private Wealth Management revenue&nbsp; Table of Contentsgrew 8% to $1.3&nbsp;billion, reflecting higher assets under management and higher deposit balances.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $18&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $28million in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $5.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $937&nbsp;million, or 20%, from the prior year. Theincrease was due primarily to higher performance-based compensation expense and investments in allbusiness segments.Selected metrics&nbsp;AM's client segments comprise the following:Institutional brings comprehensive global investment services &#150;including asset management, pensionanalytics, asset-liability management and active risk budgeting strategies &#150; to corporate andpublic institutions, endowments, foundations, not-for-profit organizations and governmentsworldwide.Retail provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administrationthrough third-party and direct distribution of a full range of investment vehicles.The Private Bank addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individualsand families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, taxand estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty-wealth advisory services.Private Wealth Management offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business owners in theUnited States comprehensive wealth management solutions, including investment management, capitalmarkets and risk management, tax and estate planning, banking and specialty-wealth advisoryservices.Bear Stearns Brokerage provides investment advice and wealth management services to high-net-worthindividuals, money managers, and small corporations.J.P.Morgan Asset Management has established two measures of its overall performance.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisAssets under supervision2008 compared with 2007Assets under supervision (&#147;AUS&#148;) were $1.5 trillion, a decrease of $76&nbsp;billion, or 5%, from the prior year.Assets under management (&#147;AUM&#148;) were $1.1 trillion, down $60&nbsp;billion, or 5%, from the prior year. Thedecrease was due to the effect of lower markets and non-liquidity outflows, predominantly offset byliquidity product inflows across all segments and the addition of Bear Stearns assets undermanagement. Custody, brokerage,administration and deposit balances were $363&nbsp;billion, down $16&nbsp;billion due to the effect of lowermarkets on brokerage and custody balances, offset by the addition of Bear Stearns Brokerage. TheFirm also has a 43% interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $70&nbsp;billion and$102&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above.2007 compared with 2006AUS were $1.6 trillion, an increase of $225&nbsp;billion, or 17%, from theprior year. AUM were $1.2 trillion, up 18%, or $180&nbsp;billion, from theprior year. The increase in AUM was the result of net asset inflows into liquidity and alternativeproducts and market appreciation across all segments. Custody, brokerage, administration anddeposit balances were $379&nbsp;billion, up $45&nbsp;billion. The Firm also has a 44% interest in AmericanCentury Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $102&nbsp;billion and $103&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2007 and2006, respectively, which are excluded from the AUM above.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsCORPORATE/PRIVATE EQUITY&nbsp;The Corporate/Private Equity sectorcomprises Private Equity, Treasury, corporatestaff units and expense that is centrallymanaged. Treasury manages capital, liquidity,interest rate and foreign exchange risk and theinvestment portfolio for the Firm. The corporatestaff units include Central Technology andOperations, Internal Audit, Executive Office,Finance, Human Resources, Marketing &Communications, Legal & Compliance, CorporateReal Estate and General Services, RiskManagement, Corporate Responsibility andStrategy & Development. Other centrally managedexpense includes the Firm's occupancy andpension-related expense, net of allocations tothe business.Selected income statement data&nbsp;&nbsp;2008 compared with 2007Net income for Corporate/Private Equity was $557million, compared with net income of $1.9&nbsp;billionin the prior year. This segment includes theresults of Private Equity and Corporate businesssegments, as well as merger-related items.Net loss for Private Equity was $690&nbsp;million,compared with net income of $2.2&nbsp;billion in theprior year. Net revenue was negative $963million, a decrease of $4.9&nbsp;billion, reflectingPrivate Equity losses of $894&nbsp;million, comparedwith gains of $4.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Noninterest expense was negative $120&nbsp;million, adecrease of $469&nbsp;million from the prior year,reflecting lower compensation expense.Net income for Corporate was $1.5&nbsp;billion, comparedwith a net loss of $150&nbsp;million in the prior year.Net revenue was $1.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $580million. Excluding merger-related items, netrevenue was $1.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.2billion. Net revenue included a gain of $1.5billion on the proceeds from the sale of Visashares in its initial public offering, $1.0&nbsp;billionon the dissolution of the Chase PaymentechSolutions joint venture, and $668&nbsp;million from thesale of MasterCard shares, partially offset bylosses of $1.1&nbsp;billion on preferred securities ofFannie Mae and Freddie Mac and $464&nbsp;million relatedto the offer to repurchase auction-rate securities.2007 included a gain of $234&nbsp;million on the sale ofMasterCard shares.Noninterest expense was negative $736&nbsp;million,compared with $959&nbsp;million in the prior year,driven mainly by lower litigation expense.Merger-related items were a net loss of $2.1billioncompared with a net loss of $130&nbsp;million in theprior year. Washington Mutual merger-related itemsincluded conforming loan loss reserve of $1.5billion, credit card related loan loss reserves of$403&nbsp;million and net merger-related costs of $138million. Bear Stearns merger-related included a netloss of $423&nbsp;million, which represented JPMorganChase's49.4% ownership in Bear Stearns losses from April8 to May&nbsp;30, 2008, and net merger-related costsof $665&nbsp;million. 2007 included merger costs of$209&nbsp;million related to the Bank One and Bank ofNew York transactions.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis2007 compared with 2006Net income was $1.9&nbsp;billion, compared with $842million in the prior year, benefiting from strongPrivate Equity gains, partially offset by higherexpense. Prior-year results also included Incomefrom discontinued operations of $795&nbsp;million, whichincluded a one-time gain of $622&nbsp;million from thesale of selected corporate trust businesses.Net income for Private Equity was $2.2&nbsp;billion,compared with $627&nbsp;million in the prior year.Total net revenue was $4.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of$2.8&nbsp;billion. The increase was driven by PrivateEquity gains of $4.1&nbsp;billion, compared with $1.3billion, reflecting a higher level of gains andthe change in classification of carried interestto compensation expense. Total noninterest expensewas $589&nbsp;million, an increase of $422&nbsp;million fromthe prior year. The increase was driven by highercompensation expense, reflecting the change in theclassification of carried interest.Net loss for Corporate was $150&nbsp;million, comparedwith a net loss of $391&nbsp;million in the prior year.Corporate total net revenue was $452&nbsp;million, anincrease of $1.6&nbsp;billion. Revenue benefited fromnet security gains compared with net securitylosses in the prior year and improved net interestspread. Total noninterest expense was $959&nbsp;million,an increase of $284&nbsp;million from the prior year.The increase reflected higher net litigationexpense, driven by credit card-related litigationand the absence of prior-year insurance recoveriesrelated to certain material litigation, partiallyoffset by lower compensation expense.Net loss for merger costs related to the Bank Oneand the Bank of New York transactions were $130million, compared with a loss of $189&nbsp;million inthe prior year. Merger costs were $209&nbsp;million,compared with $305&nbsp;million in the prior year.Selected metrics&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsPrivate equity portfolio2008 compared with 2007The carrying value of the private equity portfolioat December&nbsp;31, 2008, was $6.9&nbsp;billion, down from$7.2&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2007. The portfoliodecrease was primarily driven by unfavorablevaluation adjustments on existing investments,partially offset by new investments, and theaddition of the Bear Stearns portfolios. Theportfolio represented 5.8% of the Firm'sstockholders' equity less goodwill at December&nbsp;31,2008, down from 9.2% at December&nbsp;31, 2007.2007 compared with 2006The carrying value of the private equity portfolioat December&nbsp;31, 2007, was $7.2&nbsp;billion, up from$6.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006. The portfolioincrease was due primarily to favorable valuationadjustments on nonpublic investments and newinvestments, partially offset by sales activity.The portfolio represented 9.2% of the Firm'sstockholders' equity less goodwill at December&nbsp;31,2007, up from8.6% at December&nbsp;31, 2006.Selected income statement and balance sheet data&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisBALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS&nbsp;Selected balance sheet dataConsolidated Balance Sheets overviewThe following is a discussion of thesignificant changes in the ConsolidatedBalance Sheets from December&nbsp;31, 2007.Deposits with banks; federal funds sold andsecurities purchased under resale agreements;securities borrowed; federal funds purchased andsecurities loaned or sold under repurchaseagreementsThe Firm utilizes deposits with banks, federalfunds sold and securities purchased under resaleagreements, securities borrowed, and federal fundspurchased and securities loaned or sold underrepurchase agreements as part of its liquiditymanagement activities to manage the Firm's cashpositions and risk-based capital requirements andto support the Firm's trading and risk managementactivities. In particular, the Firm usessecurities purchased under resale agreements andsecurities borrowed to provide funding or liquidityto clients by purchasing and borrowing clients'securities for the short-term. Federal fundspurchased and securities loaned or soldunder repurchase agreements are used as short-termfunding sources for the Firm and to make securitiesavailable to clients for their short-term purposes.The increase from December&nbsp;31, 2007, in depositswith banks reflected a higher level of interbanklending; a reclassification of deposits with theFederal Reserve Bank from cash and due from banksto deposits with banks reflecting a policy changeof the Federal Reserve Bank to pay interest todepository institutions on reserve balances, andassets acquired as a result of the Bear Stearnsmerger. The increase in securities borrowed andsecurities purchased under resale agreements wasrelated to assets acquired as a result of the BearStearns merger and growth in demand from clientsfor liquidity. The increase in securities soldunder repurchase agreements reflected highershort-term funding requirements to fulfill clients'demand for liquidity and finance the Firm's AFSsecurities inventory, and the effect of theliabilities assumed in connection with the BearStearns merger. For additional information on theFirm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 76&#150;80of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; debt and equity instrumentsThe Firm uses debt and equity trading instrumentsfor both market-making and proprietary risk-takingactivities. These instruments consist predominantlyof fixed income securities, including governmentand corporate debt; equity, including convertiblesecurities; loans, including certain prime mortgageand other loans warehoused by RFS and IB for saleor securitization purposes and accounted for atfair value under SFAS 159; and physical commoditiesinventories. The decreases in trading assets andliabilities &#150; debt and equity instruments fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, reflected the effect of thechallenging capital markets environment,particularly for debt securities, partially offsetby positions acquired as a result of the BearStearns merger. For additional information, referto Note 4 and Note 6 on pages 129&#150;143 and146&#150;148, respectively, of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivativereceivables and payablesDerivative instruments enable end-users toincrease, reduce or alter exposure to credit ormarket risks. The value of a derivative is derivedfrom its reference to an underlying variable orcombination of variables such as interest rate,credit, foreign exchange, equity or commodityprices or indices. JPMorgan Chase makes markets inderivatives for customers, is an end-user ofderivatives for its principal risk-takingactivities, and is also an end-user of derivativesto hedge or manage risks of market and credit exposures,modify the interest rate characteristics of relatedbalance sheet instruments or meet longer-terminvestment objectives. The majority of the Firm'sderivatives are entered into for market-makingpurposes. The increase in derivative receivablesand payables from December&nbsp;31, 2007, was primarilyrelated to the decline in interest rates, wideningcredit spreads and volatile foreign exchange ratesreflected in interest rate, credit and foreignexchange derivatives, respectively. The increasealso included positions acquired in the BearStearns merger. For additional information, referto derivative contracts, Note 4, Note 6 and Note 32on pages 129&#150;143, 146&#150;148, and 202&#150;205,respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSecuritiesAlmost all of the Firm's securities portfolio isclassified as AFS and is used predominantly tomanage the Firm's exposure to interest ratemovements, as well as to make strategic longer-terminvestments. The AFS portfolio increased fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, predominantly as a result ofpurchases, partially offset by sales andmaturities. For additional information related tosecurities, refer to the Corporate/Private Equitysegment discussion, Note 4 and Note 12 on pages61&#150;63, 129&#150;143 and 158&#150;162, respectively, ofthis Annual Report.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe Firm provides loans to a variety of customers,from large corporate and institutional clients toindividual consumers. Loans increased from December31, 2007, largely due to loans acquired in theWashington Mutual transaction, organic growth inlending in the wholesale businesses, particularlyCB, and growth in the consumer prime mortgageportfolio driven by the decision to retain, ratherthan sell, new originations of nonconformingmortgage loans.Both the consumer and wholesale components of theallowance for loan losses increased from the prioryear reflecting the addition of noncredit-impairedloans acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction, including an increase to conform the allowance applicable to assets acquired from Washington Mutual to theFirm's loan loss methodologies. Excluding theWashington Mutual transaction the consumerallowance rose due to an increase in estimatedlosses for home equity, subprime mortgage, primemortgage and credit card loans due to the effectsof continued housing price declines, risingunemployment and a weakening economic environment.Excluding the Washington Mutual transaction, theincrease in the wholesale allowance was due to theimpact of the transfer of $4.9&nbsp;billion of fundedand unfunded leveraged lending loans in IB to theretained loan portfolio from the held-for-sale loanportfolio, the effect of a weakening credit environment and loan growth. For a more detaileddiscussion of the loan portfolio and the allowancefor loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management onpages 80&#150;99, and Notes 4, 5, 14 and 15 on pages129&#150;143, 144&#150;146, 163&#150;166 and 166&#150;168,respectively, of this Annual Report.Accrued interest and accounts receivable; accountspayable and other liabilitiesThe Firm's accrued interest and accounts receivableconsist of accrued interest receivable frominterest-earning assets; receivables from customers(primarily from activities related to IB's PrimeServices business);receivables from brokers, dealers and clearingorganizations; and receivables from failedsecurities sales. The Firm's accounts payable andother liabilities consist of accounts payable tocustomers (primarily from activities related toIB's Prime Services business), payables to brokers,dealers and clearing organizations; payables fromfailed securities purchases; accrued expense,including for interest-bearing liabilities; and allother liabilities, including obligations to returnsecurities received as collateral. The increase inaccrued interest and accounts receivable fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, was due largely to the BearStearns merger, reflecting higher customerreceivables in IB's Prime Services business and theWashington Mutual transaction. The increase inaccounts payable and other liabilitieswas predominantly due to the Bear Stearns merger,reflecting higher customer payables (primarilyrelated to IB's Prime Services business), as wellas higher obligations to return securities receivedas collateral. For additional information, see Note22 on page 190 of this Annual Report.GoodwillGoodwill arises from business combinations andrepresents the excess of the cost of an acquiredentity over the net fair value amounts assigned toassets acquired and liabilities assumed. Theincrease in goodwill was due predominantly to thedissolution of Chase Paymentech Solutions jointventure, the merger with Bear Stearns, the purchaseof an additional equity interest in Highbridge andtax-related purchase accounting adjustmentsassociated with the Bank One merger, whichincreased goodwill attributed to IB. Theseitems were offset partially by a decrease ingoodwill attributed to TSS predominantly resultingfrom the sale of a previously consolidatedsubsidiary. For additional information, see Note 18on pages 186&#150;189 of this Annual Report.Other intangible assetsThe Firm's other intangible assets consist of MSRs,purchased credit card relationships, other creditcard-related intangibles, core deposit intangibles,and other intangibles. MSRs increased due to theWashington Mutual transaction and the Bear Stearnsmerger; sales in RFS of originated loans; andpurchases of MSRs. These increases in MSRs werepartially offset by markdowns of the fair value ofthe MSR asset due to changes to inputs andassumptions in the MSR valuation model, includingupdates to prepayment assumptions to reflectcurrent expectations, and to servicing portfoliorun-offs. The decrease in other intangible assetsreflects amortization expense associated withcredit card-related and core deposit intangibles,partially offset by increases due to thedissolution of the Chase Paymentech Solutions jointventure, the purchase of an additional equityinterest in Highbridge, and the acquisition of aninstitutional global custody portfolio. Foradditional information on MSRs and other intangibleassets, see Note 18 on pages 186&#150;189 of thisAnnual Report.Other assetsThe Firm's other assets consist of private equityandother investments, collateral received, corporateand bank-owned life insurance policies, premisesand equipment, assets acquired in loan satisfaction(including real estate owned), and all otherassets. The increase in other assets from December31, 2007, was due to the Bear Stearns merger, whichpartly resulted in a higher volume of collateralreceived from customers, the Washington Mutualtransaction, and the purchase of asset-backedcommercial paper from money market mutual funds inconnection with the Federal Reserve's Asset-BackedCommercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund LiquidityFacility (&#147;AML Facility&#148;), which was established bythe Federal Reserve on September&nbsp;19, 2008, as atemporary lending facility to provide liquidity toeligible MMMFs. For additional informationregarding the AML Facility, see Executive Overviewand Note 22 on pages 29&#150;32 and 190 respectively,of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisDepositsThe Firm's deposits represent a liability tocustomers, both retail and wholesale, related tonon-brokerage funds held on their behalf. Depositsare generally classified by location (U.S. andnon-U.S.), whether they are interest ornoninterest-bearing, and by type (i.e., demand,money market deposit, savings, time or negotiableorder of withdrawal accounts). Deposits helpprovide a stable and consistent source of fundingfor the Firm. Deposits were at a higher levelcompared with the level at December&nbsp;31, 2007,predominantly from the deposits assumed in theWashington Mutual transaction, net increases inwholesale interest- and noninterest-bearingdeposits in TSS, AM and CB. The increase in TSS wasdriven by both new and existing clients, and due tothe deposit inflows related to the heightenedvolatility and credit concerns affecting themarkets. For more information on deposits, refer tothe TSS and RFS segment discussions on pages 56&#150;57and 45&#150;50, respectively, and the Liquidity RiskManagement discussion on pages 76&#150;80 of thisAnnual Report. For more information on wholesaleliability balances, including deposits, refer tothe CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 54&#150;55and 56&#150;57 of this Annual Report.Commercial paper and other borrowed fundsThe Firm utilizes commercial paper and otherborrowed funds as part of its liquidity managementactivities to meet short-term funding needs, and inconnection with a TSS liquidity management productwhereby excess client funds, are transferred intocommercial paper overnight sweep accounts. Theincrease in other borrowed funds was predominantlydue to advances from Federal Home Loan Banks of$70.2&nbsp;billion (net of maturities of $10.4&nbsp;billion)that were assumed as part of the Washington Mutualtransaction and nonrecourse advances from theFederal Reserve Bank of Boston (&#147;FRBB&#148;) to fundpurchases of asset-backed commercial paper from money market mutualfunds, and other borrowings from the FederalReserve under the Term Auction Facility program.For additional information on the Firm's LiquidityRisk Management and other borrowed funds, see pages76&#150;80 and Note 21 on page 190 of this AnnualReport.Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securitiesThe Firm utilizes long-term debt and trustpreferred capital debt securities to providecost-effective and diversified sources of funds andas critical components of the Firm's liquidity andcapital management. Long-term debt and trustpreferred capital debt securities increased fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, predominantly due to debtassumed in both the Bear Stearns merger and theWashington Mutual transaction, and debt issuancesof $20.8&nbsp;billion, which are guaranteed by the FDICunder its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program(the &#147;TLG Program&#148;). These increases were partiallyoffset by net maturities and redemptions, includingIB structured notes, the issuances of which aregenerally client-driven. For additional informationon the Firm's long-term debt activities, see theLiquidity Risk Management discussion on pages76&#150;80 and Note 23 on pages 191&#150;192 of this AnnualReport.Stockholders' equityThe increase in total stockholders' equity fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, was predominantly due to theissuance of preferred and common equity securitiesduring 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008,JPMorgan Chase participated in the Capital PurchaseProgram and issued preferred stock and a warrant topurchase common stock to the U.S. Treasury,resulting in a $25.0&nbsp;billion increase tostockholders' equity. Additional preferred stockissuances and a common stock issuance during 2008increased equity by $19.3&nbsp;billion. Equity fromissuances of stock awards under the Firm's employeestock-based compensation plans, the Bear Stearnsmerger, and net income for 2008 was more thanoffset by the declaration of cash dividends and netlosses recorded within accumulated othercomprehensive income related to AFS securities anddefined benefit pension and OPEB plans. For afurther discussion, see the Capital Managementsection that follows, and Note 24 and Note 27 onpages 193&#150;194 and 196&#150;197, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsOFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase is involved with several typesof off-balance sheet arrangements, includingspecial purpose entities (&#147;SPEs&#148;) andlending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesThe basic SPE structure involves a companyselling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds thepurchase of those assets by issuing securities toinvestors in the form of commercial paper,short-term asset-backed notes, medium-term notesand other forms of interest. SPEs are generallystructured to insulate investors from claims on theSPE's assets by creditors of other entities,including the creditors of the seller of theassets.SPEs are an important part of the financialmarkets, providing market liquidity by facilitatinginvestors' access to specific portfolios of assetsand risks. These arrangements are integral to themarkets for mortgage-backed securities, commercialpaper and other asset-backed securities.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidityfor itself and its clients by securitizingfinancial assets, and by creating investmentproducts for clients. The Firm is involved withSPEs through multi-seller conduits and investorintermediation activities, and as a result of itsloan securitizations, through qualifying specialpurpose entities (&#147;QSPEs&#148;). This discussion focusesmostly on multi-seller conduits and investorintermediation. For a detailed discussion of allSPEs with which the Firm is involved, and therelated accounting, see Note 1, Note 16 and Note 17on pages 122&#150;123, 168&#150;176 and 177&#150;186,respectively of this Annual Report.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate,against all SPE-related transactions and relatedexposures, such as derivative transactions andlending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stockto support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conductedat arm's length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chaseemployee is permitted to invest in SPEs with whichthe Firm is involved where such investment wouldviolate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rulesprohibit employees from self-dealing and acting onbehalf of the Firm in transactions with which theyor their family have any significant financialinterest.Implications of a credit ratingdowngrade toJPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firmcould be required to provide funding if theshort-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A., was downgraded below specific levels,primarily &#147;P-1&#148;,&#147;A-1&#148; and &#147;F1&#148; for Moody's, Standard & Poor's andFitch,respectively. The amount of these liquiditycommitments was $61.0&nbsp;billion and $94.0&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., weredowngraded, the Firm could be replaced by anotherliquidity provider in lieu of providing fundingunder the liquidity commitment, or in certaincircumstances,the Firm could facilitate the sale orrefinancing of the assets in the SPE in order toprovide liquidity. These commitments are includedin other unfunded commitments to extend credit andasset purchase agreements, as shown in theOff-balance sheet lending-related financialinstruments and guarantees table on page 69 of thisAnnual Report.As noted above, the Firm is involved with threetypes of SPEs. A summary of each type of SPEfollows.Multi-seller conduitsThe Firm helps customers meet their financing needsby providing access to the commercial paper marketsthrough variable interest entities (&#147;VIEs&#148;) knownas multi-seller conduits. Multi-seller conduitentities are separate bankruptcy-remote entitiesthat purchase interests in, and make loans securedby, pools of receivables and other financial assetspursuant to agreements with customers of the Firm.The conduits fund their purchases and loans throughthe issuance of highly rated commercial paper tothird-party investors. The primary source ofrepayment of the commercial paper is the cash flowfrom the pools of assets. JPMorgan Chase receivesfees related to the structuring of multi-sellerconduit transactions and receives compensation fromthe multi-seller conduits for its role asadministrative agent, liquidity provider, andprovider of program-wide credit enhancement.Investor intermediationAs a financial intermediary, the Firm createscertain types of VIEs and also structurestransactions, typically derivative structures, withthese VIEs to meet investor needs. The Firm mayalso provide liquidity and other support. The risksinherent in derivative instruments or liquiditycommitments are managed similarly to other credit,market and liquidity risks to which the Firm isexposed. The principal types of VIEs the Firm usesin these structuring activities are municipal bondvehicles, credit-linked note vehicles andcollateralized debt obligation vehicles.Loan securitizationsJPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety ofloans, including residential mortgages, creditcards, automobile, student, and commercial loans(primarily related to real estate). JPMorganChase-sponsored securitizations utilize SPEs aspart of the securitization process. These SPEs arestructured to meet the definition of a QSPE (asdiscussed in Note 1 on page 122 of this AnnualReport); accordingly, the assets and liabilities ofsecuritization-related QSPEs are not reflected onthe Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets (except forretained interests, as described below). Theprimary purpose of these vehicles is to meetinvestor needs and generate liquidity for the Firmthrough thesale of loans to the QSPEs. These QSPEs arefinanced through the issuance of fixed orfloating-rate asset-backed securities that are soldto third-party investors or held by the Firm.Consolidation and consolidation sensitivity analysis on capitalFor more information regarding these programs andthe Firm's other SPEs, as well as the Firm'sconsolidation analysis for these programs, see Note16 and Note 17 on pages 168&#150;176 and 177&#150;186,respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSpecial-purpose entities revenueThe following table summarizes certain revenueinformation related to consolidated andnonconsolidated VIEs and QSPEs with which the Firmhas significant involvement. The revenue reportedin the table below primarily represents contractualservicing and credit fee income (i.e., for incomefrom acting as administrator, structurer, liquidityprovider). It does not include mark-to-market gainsand losses from changes in the fair value oftrading positions (such as derivative transactions)entered into with VIEs. Those gains and losses arerecorded in principal transactions revenue.Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs&nbsp;American Securitization Forum subprimeadjustable rate mortgage loans modificationsIn December&nbsp;2007, the American Securitization Forum(&#147;ASF&#148;) issued the &#147;Streamlined Foreclosure andLoss Avoidance Framework for Securitized SubprimeAdjustable Rate Mortgage Loans&#148; (&#147;the Framework&#148;).The Framework provides guidance for servicers tostreamline evaluation procedures of borrowers withcertain subprime adjustable rate mortgage (&#147;ARM&#148;)loans to more efficiently provide modification ofsuch loans with terms that are more appropriate forthe individual needs of such borrowers. TheFramework applies to all first-lien subprime ARMloans that have a fixed rate of interest for aninitial period of 36&nbsp;months or less; are includedinsecuritized pools; were originated between January1, 2005, and July&nbsp;31, 2007; and have an initialinterest rate reset date between January&nbsp;1, 2008,and July&nbsp;31, 2010. The Framework categorizes thepopulation of ASF Framework Loans into threesegments. Segment 1 includes loans where theborrower is current and likely to be able torefinance into any available mortgage product.Segment 2 includes loans where the borrower iscurrent, unlikely to be able to refinance into anyreadily available mortgage industry product andmeets certain defined criteria. Segment 3 includesloans where the borrower is not current, asdefined, and does not meet the criteria forSegments 1 or 2.JPMorgan Chase adopted the Framework during thefirst quarter of 2008. For those AFS FrameworkLoans serviced by the Firm and owned byFirm-sponsored QSPEs, the Firm modified principalamounts of $1.7&nbsp;billion of Segment 2 subprimemortgages during the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008.The following table presents selected informationrelating to the principal amount of Segment 3loans for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, including those thathave been modified, subjected to other loss mitigation activities orhave been prepaid by the borrower.For additional discussion of the Framework,see Note 16 on page 176 of this Annual Report.Off-balance sheet lending-related financialinstruments and guaranteesJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-relatedfinancial instruments (e.g., commitments andguarantees) to meet the financing needs of itscustomers. The contractual amount of thesefinancial instruments represents the maximumpossible credit risk should the counterparty drawupon the commitment or the Firm be required tofulfill its obligation under the guarantee, andthe counterparty subsequently fail to performaccording to the terms of the contract. Thesecommitments and guarantees historically expirewithout being drawn and even higher proportionsexpire without a default. As a result, the totalcontractual amount of these instruments is not, inthe Firm's view, representative of its actualfuture credit exposure or funding requirements.Further, certain commitments, primarily related toconsumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice,at the option of the Firm. For further discussionof lending-related commitments and guarantees andthe Firm's accounting for them, seelending-related commitments in Credit RiskManagement on page 90 and Note 33 on pages206&#150;210 of this Annual Report.Contractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firmenters into various contractual obligations thatmay require future cash payments. Commitments forfuture cash expenditures primarily includecontracts to purchasefuture services and capital expenditures related toreal estate&#150;related obligations and equipment.The accompanying table summarizes, by remainingmaturity, JPMorgan Chase's off-balance sheetlending-related financial instruments andsignificant contractual cash obligations atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008. Contractual purchases andcapital expenditures in the table below reflectthe minimum contractual obligation under legallyenforceable contracts with terms that are bothfixed and determinable. Excluded from thefollowing table are a number of obligations to besettled in cash, primarily in under one year.These obligations are reflected on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets and include federalfunds purchased and securities loaned or soldunder repurchase agreements; commercial paper;other borrowed funds; purchases of debt and equityinstruments; derivative payables; and certainpurchases of instruments that resulted insettlement failures. Also excluded are contingentpayments associated with certain acquisitions thatcould not be estimated. For discussion regardinglong-term debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities, see Note 23 on pages 191&#150;192 of thisAnnual Report. For discussion regarding operatingleases, see Note 31 on page 201 of this AnnualReport.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents maturity information for off-balance sheet lending-relatedfinancial instruments, guarantees and commitments.Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCAPITAL MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The Firm's capital management framework isintended to ensure that there is capital sufficientto support the underlying risks of the Firm'sbusiness activities and to maintain&#147;well-capitalized&#148; status under regulatoryrequirements. In addition, the Firm holds capitalabove these requirements in amounts deemedappropriate to achieve the Firm's regulatory anddebt rating objectives. The process of assigningequity to the lines of business is integrated intothe Firm's capital framework and is overseen by theALCO.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital isbased upon the following objectives:Equity for a line of business represents the amountthe Firm believes the business would require if itwere operating independently, incorporatingsufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements andcapital levels for similarly rated peers. Capitalis also allocated to each line of business for,among other things, goodwill and other intangiblesassociated with acquisitions effected by the lineof business. Return on common equity is measuredand internal targets for expected returns areestablished as a key measure of a businesssegment's performance.Relative to 2007, line of business equity increasedduring 2008, reflecting growth across thebusinesses. In addition, at the end of the thirdquarter of 2008, equity was increased for each lineof business in anticipation of the futureimplementation of the new Basel II capital rules.For further details on these rules, see Basel II onpage 72 of this Annual Report. Finally, during2008, capital allocated to RFS, CS, and CB wasincreased as a result of the Washington Mutualtransaction; capital allocated to AM was increaseddue to the Bear Stearns merger and the purchase ofthe additional equity interest in Highbridge; andcapital allocated to IB was increased due to theBear Stearns merger.In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines ofbusiness perform the required goodwill impairmenttesting. For a further discussion of goodwill andimpairment testing, see Critical AccountingEstimates Used by the Firm and Note 18 on pages107&#150;111 and 186&#150;189, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp;Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacyrelative to the risks underlying the Firm'sbusiness activities, utilizing internalrisk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assignseconomic capital primarily based upon four riskfactors: credit risk, market risk, operational riskand private equity risk. In 2008, the growth ineconomic risk capital was driven by higher creditrisk capital, which was increased primarily due toa combination of higher derivative exposure, aweakening credit environment, and asset growthrelated to the Bear Stearns and Washington Mutualtransactions.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately for thewholesale businesses (IB, CB, TSS and AM) andconsumer businesses (RFS and CS).Credit risk capital for the overall wholesalecredit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, both from defaults and declines inthe portfolio value due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidencelevel consistent with an &#147;AA&#148; credit ratingstandard. Unexpected losses are losses in excess ofthose for which provisions for credit losses aremaintained. The capital methodology is based uponseveral principal drivers of credit risk: exposureat default (or loan-equivalent amount), defaultlikelihood, credit spreads, loss severity andportfolio correlation.Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio isbased upon product and other relevant risksegmentation. Actual segment level default andseverity experience are used to estimate unexpectedlosses for a one-year horizon at a confidence levelconsistent with an &#147;AA&#148; credit rating standard.Statistical results for certain segments orportfolios are adjusted to ensure that capital isconsistent with external benchmarks, such assubordination levels on market transactions orcapital held at representative monolinecompetitors, where appropriate.Market risk capitalThe Firm calculates market risk capital guided bythe principle that capital should reflect the riskof loss in the value of portfolios and financialinstruments caused by adverse movements in marketvariables, such as interest and foreign exchangerates, credit spreads, securities prices andcommodities prices. Daily Value-at-Risk (&#147;VaR&#148;),biweekly stress-test results and other factors areused to determine appropriate capital levels. TheFirm allocates market risk capital to each businesssegment according to a formula that weights thatsegment's VaR and stress-test exposures. See MarketRisk Management on pages 99&#150;104 of this AnnualReport for more information about these market riskmeasures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business foroperational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operationalrisk on a bottom-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based upon actual losses andpotential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflectchanges in the quality of the control environmentor the use of risk-transfer products. The Firmbelieves its model is consistent with the new BaselII Framework.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to privately and publicly heldsecurities, third-party fund investments andcommitments in the private equity portfolio tocover the potential loss associated with a declinein equity markets and related asset devaluations.In addition to negative market fluctuations,potential losses in private equity investmentportfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk. Thecapital allocation for the private equity portfoliois based upon measurement of the loss experiencesuffered by the Firm and other market participantsover a prolonged period of adverse equity marketconditions.Regulatory capitalThe Board of Governors of the Federal ReserveSystem (the &#147;Federal Reserve&#148;) establishes capitalrequirements, including well-capitalized standardsfor the consolidated financial holding company. TheOffice of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;)establishes similar capital requirements andstandards for the Firm's national banks, includingJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and Chase Bank USA, N.A.The Federal Reserve granted the Firm, for a periodof 18months following the Bear Stearns merger, relief upto a certain specified amount and subject to certainconditions from the Federal Reserve's risk-basedcapital and leverage requirements with respect toBear Stearns' risk-weighted assets and otherexposures acquired. The amount of such relief issubject to reduction by one-sixth each quartersubsequent to the merger and expires on October&nbsp;1,2009. The OCC granted JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.similar relief from its risk-based capital andleverage requirements.JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalizedposition, based upon Tier 1 and Total capitalratios at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, as indicatedin the tables below. For more information, seeNote 30 on pages 200&#150;201 of this Annual Report.Risk-based capital components and assetsTier 1 capital was $136.1&nbsp;billion at December31, 2008, compared with $88.7&nbsp;billion at December31, 2007, an increase of $47.4&nbsp;billion.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the changes inTier 1 capital for the year ended December&nbsp;31,2008.Additional information regarding the Firm'scapital ratios and the federal regulatory capitalstandards to which it is subject, and the capitalratios for the Firm's significant bankingsubsidiaries at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, arepresented in Note 30 on pages 200&#150;201 of thisAnnual Report.Capital Purchase ProgramPursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, onOctober&nbsp;28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.Treasury, for total proceeds of $25.0&nbsp;billion,(i)2.5&nbsp;million shares of Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock, and(ii)&nbsp;a Warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 sharesof the Firm's common stock, at an exercise price of$42.42 per share, subject to certain antidilutionand other adjustments. The Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stockqualifies as Tier 1 capital.The Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock bears cumulativedividends at a rate of 5% per year for the firstfive years and 9% per year thereafter. The Series&nbsp;K PreferredStock ranks equally with the Firm's existing 6.15%Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series&nbsp;E;5.72% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series&nbsp;F;5.49% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series&nbsp;G;Fixed-to-Floating Rate Noncumulative PerpetualPreferred Stock, Series&nbsp;I; and 8.63%Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, SeriesJ, in terms of dividend payments and uponliquidation of the Firm.Any accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series&nbsp;KPreferred Stock must be fully paid before dividendsmay be declared or paid on stock ranking junior orequally with the Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, until October&nbsp;28, 2011, the U.S. Treasury's consent is required for any increase in dividends on the Firm's commonstock from the amount of the last quarterly stock dividend declaredby the Firm prior to October&nbsp;14, 2008, unless the Series&nbsp;KPreferred Stock is redeemed in whole before then, or the U.S.Treasury has transferred all of the Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock itowns to third parties.The Firm may not repurchase or redeem any commonstock or other equity securities of the Firm, orany trust preferred securities issued by the Firmor any of its affiliates, without the priorconsent of the U.S. Treasury (other than (i)repurchases of the Series&nbsp;K Preferred Stock and(ii)&nbsp;repurchases of junior preferred shares orcommon stock in connection with any employeebenefit plan in the ordinary course of businessconsistent with past practice).Basel IIThe minimum risk-based capital requirements adoptedby the U.S. federal banking agencies follow theCapital Accord of the Basel Committee on BankingSupervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee publisheda revision to the Accord (&#147;Basel II&#148;). The goal ofthe new Basel II Framework is to provide morerisk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations andpromote enhanced risk management practices amonglarge, internationally active bankingorganizations. U.S. banking regulators published afinal Basel II rule in December&nbsp;2007, which willrequire JPMorgan Chase to implement Basel II at theholding company level, as well as at certain of itskey U.S. bank subsidiaries.Prior to full implementation of the new Basel IIFramework, JPMorgan Chase will be required tocomplete a qualification period of four consecutivequarters during which it will need to demonstratethat it meets the requirements of the new rule tothe satisfaction of its primary U.S. bankingregulators. The U.S. implementation timetableconsists of the qualification period, starting anytime between April&nbsp;1, 2008, and April&nbsp;1, 2010,followed by a minimum transition period of threeyears. During the transition period, Basel IIrisk-based capital requirements cannot fall belowcertain floors based on current (&#147;Basel l&#148;)regulations. JPMorgan Chase expects to be incompliance with all relevant Basel II rules withinthe established timelines. In addition, the Firmhas adopted, and will continue to adopt, based uponvarious established timelines, Basel II in certainnon-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.Broker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealersubsidiaries are J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.(&#147;JPMorgan Securities&#148;) and J.P. Morgan ClearingCorp. (formerly known as Bear Stearns SecuritiesCorp.). JPMorgan Securities and J.P. MorganClearing Corp. are each subject to Rule&nbsp;15c3-1under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (&#147;NetCapital Rule&#148;). JPMorgan Securities and J.P. MorganClearing Corp. are also registered as futurescommission merchants and subject to Rule&nbsp;1.17under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission(&#147;CFTC&#148;).JPMorganSecurities and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. have elected to computetheir minimum net capital requirements in accordance withthe &#147;Alternative Net Capital Requirement&#148; of the NetCapital Rule. At December&nbsp;31, 2008, JPMorganSecurities' net capital, as defined by the NetCapital Rule, of $7.2&nbsp;billion exceeded the minimumrequirement by $6.6&nbsp;billion. In addition to its netcapital requirements, JPMorgan Securities isrequired to&nbsp; Table of Contentshold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0billion and is also required to notify theSecurities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) in theevent that tentative net capital is less than $5.0billion in accordance with the market and creditrisk standards of Appendix&nbsp;E of theNet Capital Rule. As of December&nbsp;31, 2008, JPMorganSecurities had tentative net capital in excess ofthe minimum and the notification requirements. OnOctober&nbsp;1, 2008, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. mergedwith and into Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., and thesurviving entity changed its name to J.P. MorganSecurities Inc.J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp., a subsidiary ofJPMorgan Securities provides clearing andsettlement services. At December&nbsp;31, 2008, J.P.Morgan Clearing Corp.'s net capital, as defined bythe Net Capital Rule, of $4.7&nbsp;billion exceeded theminimum requirement by $3.3&nbsp;billion.DividendsOnFebruary&nbsp;23, 2009, the Board of Directors reduced theFirm's quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.05 pershare, effective for the dividend payable April&nbsp;30, 2009 toshareholders of record on April&nbsp;6, 2009. JPMorgan Chase declaredquarterly cash dividends on its commons stock in the amount of $0.38for each quarter of 2008 and the second, third and fourth quarters of2007, and $0.34 per share for the first quarter of 2007 and for eachquarter of 2006.The Firm's common stock dividend policyreflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desireddividend payout ratios, need to maintain anadequate capital level and alternative investmentopportunities. The Firm's abilityto pay dividends is subject to restrictions. Forinformation regarding such restrictions, see page72 and Note 24 and Note 29 on pages 193&#150;194 and199, respectively, of this Annual Report and for additionalinformation regarding the reduction of the dividend, see page&nbsp;32.The following table shows the common dividendpayout ratio based upon reported net income.Common dividend payout ratioIssuanceThe Firm issued $6.0&nbsp;billion and $1.8&nbsp;billionof noncumulative perpetual preferred stock on April23, 2008, and August&nbsp;21, 2008, respectively.Pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program, onOctober&nbsp;28, 2008, the Firm issued to the U.S.Treasury $25.0&nbsp;billion of cumulative preferredstock and a warrant to purchase up to 88,401,697shares of the Firm's common stock. For additionalinformation regarding preferred stock, see Note 24on pages 193&#150;194 of this Annual Report.On September&nbsp;30, 2008, the Firm issued $11.5billion, or 284&nbsp;million shares, of common stock at$40.50 per share. For additional informationregarding common stock, see Note 25 on pages194&#150;195 of this Annual Report.Stock repurchasesDuring the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, theFirm did not repurchase any shares of its commonstock. During 2007, under the respective stockrepurchase programs then in effect, the Firmrepurchased 168&nbsp;million shares for $8.2&nbsp;billion atan average price per share of $48.60.The Board of Directors approved in April&nbsp;2007, astockrepurchase program that authorizes the repurchaseof up to $10.0&nbsp;billion of the Firm's common shares,which superseded an $8.0&nbsp;billion stock repurchaseprogram approved in 2006. The $10.0&nbsp;billionauthorization includes shares to be repurchased tooffset issuances under the Firm's employeestock-based plans. The actual number of shares thatmay be repurchased is subject to various factors,including market conditions; legal considerationsaffecting the amount and timing of repurchaseactivity; the Firm's capital position (taking intoaccount goodwill and intangibles); internal capitalgeneration; and alternative potential investmentopportunities. The repurchase program does notinclude specific price targets or timetables; maybe executed through open market purchases orprivately negotiated transactions, or utilizingRule&nbsp;10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at anytime. A Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firmto repurchase shares during periods when it wouldnot otherwise be repurchasing common stock &#150; forexample, during internal trading &#147;black-outperiods.&#148; All purchases under a Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 planmust be made according to a predefined plan that isestablished when the Firm is not aware of materialnonpublic information.As of December&nbsp;31, 2008, $6.2&nbsp;billion ofauthorized repurchase capacity remained underthe current stock repurchase program.For a discussion of restrictions on stockrepurchases, see Capital Purchase Program on page72 and Note 24 on pages 193&#150;194 of this AnnualReport.For additional information regarding repurchases ofthe Firm's equity securities, see Part&nbsp;II, Item&nbsp;5,Market for registrant's common equity, relatedstockholder matters and issuer purchases of equitysecurities, on page 17 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008Form 10-K.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase'sbusiness activities. The Firm's risk managementframework and governance structure are intended toprovide comprehensive controls and ongoingmanagement of the major risks inherent in itsbusiness activities. The Firm's ability to properlyidentify, measure, monitor and report risk iscritical to both its soundness and profitability.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure starts witheach line of business being responsible formanaging its own risks. Each line of business worksclosely with Risk Management through its own riskcommittee and, in most cases, its own chief riskofficer to manage risk. Each line of business riskcommittee is responsible for decisions regardingthe business' risk strategy, policies and controls.Overlaying the line of business risk management arefour corporate functions with riskmanagement&#150;related responsibilities: Treasury, theChief Investment Office, Legal and Compliance andRisk Management.Risk Management is headed by the Firm's Chief RiskOfficer, who is a member of the Firm's OperatingCommittee and who reports to the Chief ExecutiveOfficer and the Board of Directors, primarilythrough the Board's Risk Policy Committee. RiskManagement is responsible for providing a firmwidefunction of risk management and controls. WithinRisk Management are units responsible for creditrisk, market risk, operational risk and privateequity risk, as well as Risk Management Servicesand Risk Technology and Operations. Risk ManagementServices is responsible for risk policy andmethodology, risk reporting and risk education; andRisk Technology and Operations is responsible forbuildingthe information technology infrastructure used tomonitor and manage risk.Treasury and the Chief Investment Office areresponsible for measuring, monitoring, reportingand managing the Firm's liquidity, interest rateand foreign exchange risk.Legal and Compliance has oversight for legal and fiduciary risk.In addition to the risk committees of the lines ofbusiness and the above-referenced corporatefunctions, the Firm also has an InvestmentCommittee, ALCO and two other risk-relatedcommittees, namely, the Risk Working Group and theMarkets Committee. The members of these committeesare composed of senior management of the Firm,including representatives of line of business, RiskManagement, Finance and other senior executives.Members of these risk committees meet frequently todiscuss a broad range of topics including, forexample, current market conditions and otherexternal events, current risk exposures andconcentrations to ensure that the impact of currentrisk factors are considered broadly across theFirm's businesses.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe Investment Committee oversees globalmerger and acquisition activities undertaken byJPMorgan Chase for its own account that falloutside the scope of the Firm's private equity andother principal finance activities.The Asset-Liability Committee is responsible forapproving the Firm's liquidity policy, includingcontingency funding planning and exposure to SPEs(and any required liquidity support by the Firm ofsuch SPEs). The Asset-Liability Committee alsooversees the Firm's capital management and fundstransfer pricing policy (through which lines ofbusiness &#147;transfer&#148; interest and foreign exchangerisk to Treasury in the Corporate/Private Equitysegment).The Risk Working Group meets monthly to reviewissues such as risk policy, risk methodology, BaselII and regulatory issues and topics referred to itby any line of business risk committee. The MarketsCommittee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer,meets at least weekly to review and determine appropriatecourses of action with respect to significant riskmatters, including but not limited to: limits;credit, market and operational risk; large, highrisk transactions; and hedging strategies.The Board of Directors exercises its oversight ofrisk management, principally through the Board'sRisk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The RiskPolicy Committee oversees senior managementrisk-related responsibilities, including reviewingmanagement policies and performance against thesepolicies and related benchmarks. The AuditCommittee is responsible for oversight ofguidelines and policies that govern the process bywhich risk assessment and management is undertaken.In addition, the Audit Committee reviewswith management the system of internal controls andfinancial reporting that is relied upon to providereasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm'soperational risk management processes.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisLIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The ability to maintain a sufficient levelof liquidity is crucial to financial servicescompanies, particularly maintaining appropriatelevels of liquidity during periods of adverseconditions. The Firm's funding strategy is toensure liquidity and diversity of funding sourcesto meet actual and contingent liabilities throughboth stable and adverse conditions.JPMorgan Chase uses a centralized approach forliquidity risk management. Global funding ismanaged by Corporate Treasury, using regionalexpertise as appropriate. Management believes thata centralized framework maximizes liquidity access,minimizes funding costs and permits identificationand coordination of global liquidity risk.Recent eventsDuring the second half of 2008, global marketsexhibited extraordinary levels of volatility andincreasing signs of stress. Throughout this period,access by market participants to the debt, equity,and consumer loan securitization markets wasconstrained and funding spreads widened sharply. Inresponse to strains in financial markets, U.S.government and regulatory agencies introducedvarious programs to inject liquidity into thefinancial system. JPMorgan Chase participated in anumber of these programs, two of which were theCapital Purchase Program and the FDIC's TLGProgram. On October&nbsp;28, 2008, JPMorgan Chase issued$25.0&nbsp;billion of preferred stock as well as awarrant to purchase up to 88,401,697 shares of theFirm's common stock to the U.S. Treasury under theCapital Purchase Program, which enhanced the Firm'scapital and liquidity positions. In addition, onDecember&nbsp;4, 2008, JPMorgan Chase elected tocontinue to participate in the FDIC's TLG Program,which facilitated long-term debt issuances at rates(including the guarantee fee charged by the FDIC)more favorable than those for non-FDIC guaranteeddebt issuances. Under the TLG Program, the FDICguarantees certain senior unsecured debt ofJPMorgan Chase, and in return for the guarantees,the FDIC is paid a fee based on the amount andmaturity of the debt. Under the TLG Program, theFDIC will pay the unpaid principal and interest onan FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the uncuredfailure of the participating entity to make atimely payment of principal or interest inaccordance with the terms of the instrument. Duringthe fourth quarter of 2008, pursuant to the TLGProgram, the Firm issued $20.8&nbsp;billion of bondsguaranteed by the FDIC, further enhancing theFirm's liquidity position. At December&nbsp;31, 2008,all of the FDIC-guaranteed debtwas outstanding and had a carrying value of $21.0billion, net of hedges. In the interest ofpromoting deposit stability, during the fourthquarter, the FDIC also (i)&nbsp;temporarily increased,through 2009, insurance coverage on bank depositsto $250,000 per customer from $100,000 percustomer, and (ii)&nbsp;for qualified institutions whoparticipated in the TLG Program (such as the Firm),provided full deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts.During the second half of 2008, the Firm'sdeposits (excluding those assumed in connectionwith the Washington Mutual transaction) increasedsubstantially, as the Firm benefited from theheightened volatility and credit concernsaffecting the markets.On May&nbsp;30, 2008, JPMorgan Chase completed themerger with Bear Stearns. Due to the structure ofthe transaction and the de-risking of positionsover time, the merger with Bear Stearns had nomaterial impact on the Firm's liquidity. OnSeptember&nbsp;25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase acquired thebanking operations of Washington Mutual from theFDIC. As part of the Washington Mutual transaction,JPMorgan Chase assumed Washington Mutual's depositsas well as its obligations to its credit cardsecuritization-related master trusts, coveredbonds, and liabilities to certain Federal Home LoanBanks. The Washington Mutual transaction had aninsignificant impact on the Firm's overallliquidity position.Both S&P and Moody's lowered the Firm's ratings onenotch on December&nbsp;19, 2008 and January&nbsp;15, 2009,respectively. These rating actions did not have amaterial impact on the cost or availability offunding to the Firm. For a further discussion ofcredit ratings, see the Credit Ratings caption ofthis Liquidity Risk Management section on pages&nbsp;79-80 ofthis Annual Report.Notwithstanding the market events during the latterhalf of 2008, the Firm's liquidity positionremained strong based on its liquidity metrics asof December&nbsp;31, 2008. The Firm believes that itsunsecured and secured funding capacity issufficient to meet on- and off-balance sheetobligations. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding,including core liabilities, exceeded illiquidassets. In addition, during the course of 2008, theFirm raised funds at the parent holding company inexcess of its minimum threshold to cover itsobligations and those of its nonbank subsidiariesthat mature over the next 12&nbsp;months.GovernanceThe Asset-Liability Committee approves and overseesthe execution of the Firm's liquidity policy andcontingency funding plan. Corporate Treasuryformulates the Firm's liquidity and contingencyplanning strategies and is responsible formeasuring, monitoring, reporting and managing theFirm's liquidity risk profile.Liquidity monitoringThe Firm monitors liquidity trends, trackshistorical and prospective on- and off-balancesheet liquidity obligations, identifies andmeasures internal and external liquidity warningsignals to permit early detection of liquidityissues, and manages contingency planning(including identification and testing of variouscompany-specific and market-driven stressscenarios). Various tools, which togethercontribute to an overall firmwide liquidityperspective, are used to monitor and manageliquidity. Among others, these include: (i)analysis of the timing of liquidity sources versusliquidity uses (i.e., funding gaps) over periodsranging from overnight to one year; (ii)&nbsp;managementof debt and capital issuances to ensure that theilliquid portion of the balance sheet can be fundedby equity, long-term debt, trust preferred capitaldebt securities and deposits the Firm believes tobe stable; and (iii)&nbsp;assessment of the Firm'scapacity to raise incremental unsecured and securedfunding.Liquidity of the parent holding company and itsnonbank subsidiaries is monitored independently aswell as in conjunction with the liquidity&nbsp; Table of Contents of the Firm's bank subsidiaries. At the parentholding company level, long-term funding is managedto ensure that the parent holding company has, at aminimum, sufficient liquidity to cover itsobligations and those of its nonbank subsidiarieswithin the next 12&nbsp;months. For bank subsidiaries,the focus of liquidity risk management is onmaintenance of unsecured and secured fundingcapacity sufficient to meet on- and off-balancesheet obligations.A component of liquidity management is the Firm'scontingency funding plan. The goal of the plan isto ensure appropriate liquidity during normal andstress periods. The plan considers varioustemporary and long-term stress scenarios whereaccess to unsecured funding is severely limited ornonexistent, taking into account both on-andoff-balance sheet exposures, and separatelyevaluates access to funds by the parent holdingcompany and the Firm's banks.FundingSources of fundsThe deposits held by the RFS, CB, TSS and AM linesof business are a generally consistent source offunding for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, total deposits for the Firm were$1.0 trillion, compared with $740.7&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2007. A significant portion of theFirm's deposits are retail deposits, which are lesssensitive to interest rate changes or marketvolatility and therefore are considered more stablethan market-based (i.e., wholesale) liabilitybalances. The Washington Mutual transaction addedapproximately $159.9&nbsp;billion of deposits to theFirm, a significant majority of which are retaildeposits. In addition, through the normal course ofbusiness, the Firm benefits from substantialliability balances originated by RFS, CB, TSS and AM.These franchise-generated liability balancesinclude deposits and funds that are swept toon-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercialpaper, federal funds purchased and securitiesloaned or sold under repurchase agreements), asignificant portion of which are considered to bestable and consistent sources of funding due to thenature of the businesses from whichthey are generated. For further discussions ofdeposit and liability balance trends, see thediscussion of the results for the Firm's businesssegments and the Balance sheet analysis on pages42&#150;60 and 64&#150;66, respectively, of this AnnualReport.Additional sources of funding include a variety ofunsecured short-and long-term instruments,including federal funds purchased, certificates ofdeposits, time deposits, bank notes, commercialpaper, long-term debt, trust preferred capital debtsecurities, preferred stock and common stock.Secured sources of funding include securitiesloaned or sold under repurchase agreements, assetsecuritizations, borrowings from the FederalReserve (including discount window borrowings, thePrimary Dealer Credit Facility and the Term AuctionFacility) and borrowings from the Chicago,Pittsburgh and, as a result of the WashingtonMutual transaction, the San Francisco Federal HomeLoan Banks. However, the Firm does not viewborrowings from the Federal Reserve as a primarymeans of funding the Firm.IssuanceFunding markets are evaluated on an ongoing basisto achieve an appropriate global balance ofunsecured and secured funding at favorable rates.Generating funding from a broad range of sources ina variety of geographic locations enhancesfinancial flexibility and limits dependence on anyone source.During 2008, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately$42.6&nbsp;billion of long-term debt for funding orcapital management purposes, including $20.8billion of FDIC-guaranteed notes issued under theTLG Program. The Firm also issued $28.0&nbsp;billion ofIB structured notes, the issuances of which aregenerally client-driven and not for funding orcapital management purposes, as the proceeds fromsuch transactions are generally used to purchasesecurities to mitigate the risk associated withstructured note exposure. In addition, during theyear, the Firm issued $1.8&nbsp;billion of trustpreferred capital debt securities. During the sameperiod, the Firm redeemed or had maturities of$62.7&nbsp;billion of securities, including $35.8billion of IB structured notes.Preferred stock issuances included $6.0&nbsp;billion and$1.8&nbsp;billion of noncumulative perpetual preferredstock issued on April&nbsp;23 and August&nbsp;21, 2008,respectively, as well as preferred stock issued tothe U.S. Treasury on October&nbsp;28, 2008, under theCapital Purchase Program. In connection withpreferred stock issuance under the Capital PurchaseProgram, the Firm also issued to the U.S. Treasuryon October&nbsp;28, 2008, a warrant to purchase up to88,401,697 shares of the Firm's common stock, at anexercise price of $42.42 per share, subject tocertain antidilution and other adjustments. TheFirm has in the past, and may continue in thefuture, to repurchase from time to time its debt ortrust preferred capital debt securities in openmarket purchases or privately negotiatedtransactions subject to regulatory and contractualrestrictions.Finally, during 2008, the Firm securitized $21.4billion of credit card loans. The ability tosecuritize loans, and the associated gains on thosesecuritizations, are principallydependent upon the credit quality and othercharacteristics of the assets securitized as wellas upon prevailing market conditions. Given thevolatility and stress in the financial markets inthe second half of 2008, the Firm did notsecuritize any residential mortgage loans, autoloans or student loans during 2008.Replacement Capital CovenantsIn connection with the issuance of certain of itstrust preferred capital debt securities andnoncumulative perpetual preferred stock, the Firmentered into Replacement Capital Covenants (&#147;RCCs&#148;)granting certain rights to the holders of &#147;covereddebt,&#148; as defined in the RCCs, that prohibit therepayment, redemption or purchase of the trustpreferred capital debt securities and noncumulativeperpetual preferred stock except, with limitedexceptions, to the extent that JPMorgan Chase hasreceived, in each such case, specified amounts ofproceeds from the sale of certain qualifyingsecurities. Currently the Firm's covered debt isits 5.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable InterestDebentures, Series&nbsp;O, due in 2035. For moreinformation regarding these covenants, reference ismade to the respective RCCs entered into by theFirm in connection with the issuances of such trustpreferred capital debt securities and noncumulativeperpetual&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysispreferred stock, which are filed with the U.S.Securities and Exchange Commission under cover ofForms 8-K.Cash flowsFor the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, 2007 and2006, cash and due from banks decreased $13.2billion, $268&nbsp;million, and increased$3.7&nbsp;billion, respectively. The followingdiscussion highlights the major activities andtransactions that affected JPMorgan Chase's cashflows during 2008, 2007 and 2006.Cash Flows from Operating ActivitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilitiessupport the Firm's capital markets and lendingactivities, including the origination or purchaseof loans initially designated as held-for-sale.The operating assets and liabilities can varysignificantly in the normal course of business dueto the amount and timing of cash flows, which areaffected by client-driven activities, marketconditions and trading strategies. Managementbelieves cash flows from operations, availablecash balances and the Firm's ability to generatecash through short-and long-term borrowings aresufficient to fund the Firm's operating liquidityneeds.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, net cashprovided by operating activities was $23.1&nbsp;billion,while for the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2007 and2006, net cash used in operating activities was$110.6&nbsp;billion and $49.6&nbsp;billion, respectively. In2008, net cash generated from operating activitieswas higher than net income,largely as a result of adjustments for operatingitems such as the provision for credit losses,depreciation and amortization, stock-basedcompensation, and certain other expense. During2006, 2007 and 2008,cash was used to fund loans held-for-sale,primarily in IB and RFS. During 2008, proceedsfrom sales of loans originated or purchased with aninitial intent to sell were slightly higher thancash used to acquire such loans; but the cash flowsfrom these activities were at a significantly lowerlevel than for the same periods in 2007 and 2006 asa result of current market conditions. In 2007 and2006, cash used to acquire such loans was slightlyhigher than proceeds from sales.For the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2007 and 2006, thenet cash used in operating activities supportedgrowth in the Firm's lending and capital marketsactivities. In 2007, when compared with 2006, therewas a significant decline in cash flows from IBloan originations/purchases and sale/securitizationactivities as a result of the difficult wholesalesecuritization market and capital markets forleveraged financings, which were affected by asignificant deterioration in liquidity in thesecond half of 2007. Cash flows in 2007 associatedwith RFS residential mortgage activities grew,reflecting an increase in originations.Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantlyinclude originating loans to be held for investment,other receivables, the available-for-saleinvestment portfolio and other short-terminvestment vehicles. For the year ended December31, 2008, net cash of $286.3&nbsp;billion was used ininvesting activities, primarily for: purchases ofinvestment securities in Corporate's AFS portfolioto manage the Firm's exposure to interestrate movements, as well as to make strategiclonger-term investments; increased deposits withbanks as the result of the availability of excesscash for short-term investment opportunitiesthrough inter-bank lending, and from deposits withthe Federal Reserve (which is now an investingactivity, reflecting a policy change of the FederalReserve to pay interest to depository institutionson reserve balances); net additions to thewholesale loan portfolio, from organic growth inCB; additions to the consumer prime mortgageportfolio as a result of the decision to retain,rather than sell, new originations of nonconformingprime mortgage loans; an increase in securitiespurchased under resale agreements reflecting growthin demand from clients for liquidity; and netpurchases of asset-backed commercial paper frommoney market mutual funds in connection with atemporary Federal Reserve Bank of Boston lendingfacility. Partially offsetting these uses of cashwere proceeds from sales and maturities of AFSsecurities; loan sales and credit cardsecuritization activities, which were at a lowerlevel than for the same periods in 2007 as a resultof the adverse market conditions that havecontinued since the last half of 2007; and net cashreceived from acquisitions and the sale of aninvestment. Additionally, in June&nbsp;2008, inconnection with the mergerwith Bear Stearns, the Firm sold assets acquiredfrom Bear Stearns to the FRBNY and received cashproceeds of $28.85&nbsp;billion (for additionalinformation see Note 2 on page 123&#150;128 of thisAnnual Report).For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2007, net cash of$73.1&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities,primarily to fund purchases in the AFS securitiesportfolio to manage the Firm's exposure to interestrate movements; net additions to the wholesaleretained loan portfolios in IB, CB and AM, mainlyas a result of business growth; a net increase inthe consumer retained loan portfolio, primarilyreflecting growth in RFS in home equity loans andnet additions to RFS' subprime mortgage loansportfolio (which was affected by management'sdecision in the third quarter to retain (ratherthan sell) new subprime mortgages), and growth inprime mortgage loans originated by RFS and AM thatcannot be sold to U.S. government agencies or U.S.government-sponsored enterprises; and increases insecurities purchased under resale agreements as aresult of a higher level of cash that was availablefor short-term investment opportunities inconnection with the Firm's efforts to buildliquidity. These net uses of cash were partiallyoffset by cash proceeds received from sales andmaturities of AFS securities; and credit card,residential mortgage, student and wholesale loansales and securitization activities, which grew in2007 despite the difficult conditions in the creditmarkets.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2006, net cash of$99.6&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities. Netcash was invested to fund net additions to theretained wholesale loan portfolio, mainly resultingfrom capital markets activity in IB leveragedfinancings; increases in CS loans reflecting strongorganic growth; net additions in retail home equityloans; the acquisition of private-label credit cardportfolios from Kohl's, BP and Pier 1 Imports,Inc.; the acquisition of Collegiate FundingServices; and purchases of AFS securities inconnection with repositioning the portfolio inresponse to changes in interest rates. These usesof cash were partially offset by cash proceedsprovided from credit card, residential mortgage,auto and&nbsp; Table of Contentswholesale loan sales and securitizationactivities; sales and maturities of AFSsecurities; the net decline in auto loans, whichwas caused partially by management's decision tode-emphasize vehicle leasing; and the sale of theinsurance business at the beginning of the secondquarter.Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesThe Firm's financing activities primarily reflectcash flows related to customer deposits, issuancesof long-term debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities, and issuances of preferred and commonstock. In 2008, net cash provided by financingactivities was $250.5&nbsp;billion due to: growth inwholesale deposits, in particular, interest-andnoninterest-bearing deposits in TSS (driven by bothnew and existing clients, and due to the depositinflows related to the heightened volatility andcreditconcerns affecting the global markets), as well asincreases in AM and CB (due to organic growth);proceeds of$25.0&nbsp;billion from the issuance of preferred stockand a warrant to the U.S. Treasury under theCapital Purchase Program; additional issuances ofcommon stock and preferred stock used for generalcorporate purposes; an increase in other borrowingsdue to nonrecourse secured advances from theFederal Reserve Bank of Boston to fund the purchaseof asset-backed commercial paper from money marketmutual funds; increases in federal funds purchasedand securities loaned or sold under repurchaseagreements in connection with higher short-termrequirements to fulfill client demand for liquidityand finance the Firm's AFS securities inventory;and a net increase in long-term debt due to acombination of non-FDIC guaranteed debt and trustpreferred capital debt securities issued prior toDecember4, 2008, and the issuance of $20.8&nbsp;billion ofFDIC-guaranteed long-term debt issued during thefourth quarter of 2008. The fourth-quarterFDIC-guaranteed issuance was offset partially bymaturities of non-FDIC guaranteed long-term debtduring the same period. The increase in long-termdebt and trust preferred capital debt securitieswas used primarily to fund certain illiquid assetsheld by the parent holding company and buildliquidity. Cash was also used to pay dividends oncommon and preferred stock. The Firm did notrepurchase any shares of its common stock in theopen market during 2008 in order to maintain itscapital objectives.In 2007, net cash provided by financing activitieswas $183.0&nbsp;billion due to a net increase inwholesale deposits from growth in business volumes,in particular, interest-bearing deposits at TSS, AMand CB;net issuances of long-term debt and trust preferredcapital debt securities primarily to fund certainilliquid assets held by the parent holding companyand build liquidity, and by IB from client-drivenstructured notes transactions; and growth incommercial paper issuances and other borrowed fundsdue to growth in the volume of liability balancesin sweep accounts in TSS and CB, and to fundtrading positions and to further build liquidity.Cash was used to repurchase common stock and paydividends on common stock, including an increase inthe quarterly dividend in the second quarter of2007.In 2006, net cash provided by financing activitieswas $152.7&nbsp;billion due to net cash received fromgrowth in deposits, reflecting new retail accountacquisitions and the ongoing expansion of theretail branch distribution network; higherwholesale business volumes; increases in securitiessold under repurchase agreements to fund tradingpositions and higher AFS securities positions; andnet issuances of long-term debt and trust preferredcapital debt securities. The net cash provided wasoffset partially by the payment of cash dividendson stock and common stock repurchases.Credit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing areinfluenced by credit ratings. Reductions in theseratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm'saccess to liquidity sources, increase the cost offunds, trigger additional collateral or fundingrequirements and decrease the number of investorsand counterparties willing to lend to the Firm.Additionally, the Firm's funding requirements forVIEs and other third-party commitments may beadversely affected. For additional information onthe impact of a credit ratings downgrade on thefunding requirements for VIEs, and on derivativesand collateral agreements, see Special-purposeentities on pages 67&#150;68 and Ratings profile ofderivative receivables marked to market (&#147;MTM&#148;) onpage 88 of this Annual Report.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratingsinclude a stable and diverse earnings stream,strong capital ratios, strong credit quality andrisk management controls, diverse funding sources,and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures.The credit ratings of the parent holding company and each of the Firm's significant bankingsubsidiaries as of January&nbsp;15, 2009, were as follows.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisOn December&nbsp;19, 2008, S&P lowered the seniorlong-term debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase & Co. andits principal bank subsidiaries one notch from&#147;AA-&#148; and &#147;AA&#148;, respectively; lowered theshort-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase & Co. from&#147;A-1&#043;&#148;; and affirmed the short-term debt ratings ofits principal bank subsidiaries. These actions wereprimarily the result of S&P's belief that theFirm's earnings are likely to decline over the nextcouple of years in response to increasing loanlosses associated with the Firm's exposure toconsumer lending, as well as declining businessvolumes. S&P's current outlook is negative. OnJanuary&nbsp;15, 2009, Moody's lowered the seniorlong-term debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase & Co. andits principal bank subsidiaries from &#147;Aa2&#148; and&#147;Aaa&#148;, respectively. These actions were primarilythe result of Moody's view that, in the currenteconomic environment, the Firm may experiencedifficulties generating capital and could facesignificant earnings pressure. Moody's affirmed theshort-term debt ratings of JPMorgan Chase &Co. and its principal bank subsidiaries at &#147;P-1&#148;.Moody's also revised the outlook to stable fromnegative due to the Firm's strong capital ratios,significant loan loss reserves, and strongfranchise. Ratings from Fitch on JPMorgan Chase &Co. and its principal bank subsidiaries remainedunchanged from December&nbsp;31, 2007, and Fitch'soutlook remained stable. The recent rating actionsby S&P and Moody's did not have a material impacton the cost or availability of the Firm's funding. If theFirm's senior long-term debt ratings weredowngraded by one additional notch, the Firmbelieves the incremental cost of funds or loss of funding would bemanageable within the context of current market conditions and theFirm's liquidity resources. JPMorgan Chase's unsecureddebt, other than in certain cases the IB structured notes, does not contain requirements that would callfor an acceleration of payments, maturities orchanges in the structure of the existing debt, norcontain collateral provisions or the creation of anadditional financial obligation, based onunfavorable changes in the Firm's credit ratings,financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stockprice. To the extent any IB structured notes do contain suchprovisions, the Firm believes that, in the event of an accelerationof payments or maturities or provision of collateral, the securitiesused by the Firm to risk manage such structured notes, together withother liquidity resources, are expected to generate funds sufficientto satisfy the Firm's obligations.CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor orcounterparty default. The Firm provides credit (forexample, through loans, lending-related commitmentsand derivatives) to a variety of customers, fromlarge corporate and institutional clients to theindividual consumer. For the wholesale business,credit risk management includes the distribution ofsyndicated loans originated by the Firm into themarketplace (primarily to IB clients), withexposure held in the retained portfolio averagingless than 10% of the total originated loans.Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM aregenerally retained on the balance sheet. Withregard to the consumer credit market, the Firmfocuses on creating a portfolio that is diversifiedfrom both a product and a geographic perspective.Loss mitigation strategies are being employed for allhome lending portfolios. These strategies includerate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearanceand other actions intended to minimize the economicloss and avoid foreclosure. In the mortgagebusiness, originated loans are either retained inthe mortgage portfolio or securitized and sold toU.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the ChiefRisk Officer and implemented within the lines ofbusiness. The Firm's credit risk managementgovernance consists of the following functions:Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lendingand capital markets activities. The credit riskmanagement organization works in partnership with thebusiness segments in identifying and aggregatingexposures across all lines of business.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs severalmethodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Methodologies formeasuring credit risk vary depending on severalfactors, including type of asset (e.g., consumerinstallment versus wholesale loan), riskmeasurement parameters (e.g., delinquency statusand credit bureau score versus wholesale riskrating) and risk management and collectionprocesses (e.g., retail collection center versuscentrally managed workout groups). Credit riskmeasurement is based upon the amount of exposureshould the obligor or the counterparty default, theprobability of default and the loss severity givena default event. Based upon these factors andrelated market-based inputs, the Firm estimatesboth probable and unexpected losses for thewholesale and consumer portfolios. Probable losses,reflected in the provision for credit losses, arebased primarily upon statistical estimates ofcredit losses as a result of obligor orcounterparty default. However, probable losses arenot the sole indicators of risk. If losses wereentirely predictable, the probable loss rate couldbe factored into pricing and covered as a normaland recurring cost of doing business. Unexpectedlosses, reflected in the allocation of credit riskcapital, represent the potential volatility ofactual losses relative to the probable level oflosses. Risk measurement for the wholesaleportfolio is assessed primarily on a risk-ratedbasis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessedprimarily on a credit-scored basis.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRisk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated (generally heldin IB, CB, TSS and AM), probable and unexpectedloss calculations are based upon estimates ofprobability of default and loss given default.Probability of default is the expected defaultcalculated on an obligor basis. Loss given defaultis an estimate of losses given a default event andtakes into consideration collateral and structuralsupport for each credit facility. Calculations andassumptions are based upon management informationsystems and methodologies which are under continualreview. Risk ratings are assigned to differentiaterisk within the portfolio and are reviewed on anongoing basis by credit risk management andrevised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers'current risk profiles and the related collateraland structural positions.Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFSand CS), probable loss is based upon a statisticalanalysis of inherent losses over discrete periodsof time. Probable losses are estimated usingsophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoringand decision-support tools to project credit risksand establish underwriting standards. In addition,common measures of credit quality derived fromhistorical loss experience are used to predictconsumer losses. Other risk characteristicsevaluated include recent loss experience in theportfolios, changes in origination sources,portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlyingcredit practices, including charge-off policies.These analyses are applied to the Firm's currentportfolios in order to estimate delinquencies andseverity of losses, which determine the amount ofprobable losses. These factors and analyses areupdated at least on a quarterly basis or morefrequently as market conditions dictate.Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices thatare designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of the approval and decision making ofextending credit and are intended to ensure creditrisks are assessed accurately, approved properly,monitored regularly and managed actively at boththe transaction and portfolio levels. The policyframework establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies,portfolio review parameters and guidelines formanagement of distressed exposure. Wholesale creditrisk is monitored regularly on both an aggregateportfolio level and on an individual customerbasis. Management of the Firm's wholesale exposureis accomplished through a number of means includingloan syndication and participations, loan sales,securitizations, credit derivatives, use of masternetting agreements and collateral and otherrisk-reduction techniques, which are furtherdiscussed in the following risk sections. Forconsumer credit risk, the key focus items aretrends and concentrations at the portfolio level,whereby potential problems can be remedied throughchanges in underwriting policies and portfolioguidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Managementmonitors trends against business expectations andindustry benchmarks.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk anddecision-making, aggregate credit exposure, creditquality forecasts, concentrations levels and riskprofile changes are reported regularly to seniorcredit risk management. Detailed portfolioreporting of industry, customer and geographicconcentrations occurs monthly, and theappropriateness of the allowance for credit lossesis reviewed by senior management at least on aquarterly basis. Through the risk reporting andgovernance structure, credit risk trends and limitexceptions are provided regularly to, and discussedwith, senior management, for further information,see page 74 of this Annual Report.2008 Credit risk overviewDuring 2008, credit markets experienceddeterioration and increased defaults and downgradesreflecting,among other things, reduced liquidity. Theliquidity and credit crisis has adversely affectedmany financial institutions, resulting in thefailure of some in both the U.S. and Europe, andhas impacted the functioning of credit markets,particularly, the loan syndication and asset-backedsecuritization markets. The Firm's credit portfoliowas affected by these market conditions andexperienced deteriorating credit quality,especially in the latter part of the year,generally consistent with the market. In 2008, forthe wholesale portfolio, criticized assets and NPAsincreased, from historical lows, 301% and 525%,respectively, from the previous year. Charge-offs,which typically lag other portfolio deterioration,have increased from historical lows by 458% over2007. The Firm has remained focused on aggressivelymanaging the portfolio, including ongoing, in-depthreviews of credit quality, as well as of revisionsof industry, product and client concentrations.Risk levels are adjusted as needed to reflect theFirm's risk tolerance.Underwriting standards across all areas of lendinghave been strengthened, consistent with evolvingmarket conditions in order to permit the Firm tolend in a safe and prudent manner. In light of thecurrent market conditions, the wholesale allowancefor loan loss coverage ratio has been strengthenedto 2.64%, from 1.67% at the end of 2007.Consumer portfolio credit performance continues tobe negatively affected by the economic environment,particularly the weak labor market and the declinein housing prices which occurred nationally. As aresult, the Firm took actions throughout the yearto reduce risk exposure by tightening underwritingand loan qualification standards in those marketsmost affected by the housing downturn. In thefourth quarter of 2008, the Firm announced plans tosignificantly expand loss mitigation effortsrelated to its mortgage and home equity portfolios.During the implementation period of these expandedloss mitigation efforts, which was substantially inplace in early 2009, the Firm did not place loansinto foreclosure. These loss mitigation efforts areexpected to result in additional increases in thebalance of modified loans carried on the Firm'sbalance sheet, including loans accounted for astroubled debt restructurings, while minimizing theeconomic loss to the Firm and assisting homeownersto remain in their homes.More detailed discussion of the domestic consumercredit environment can be found on pages 91&#150;92of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisCREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase'scredit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007.Total credit exposure at December&nbsp;31, 2008,increased $198.8&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2007,reflecting an increase of $115.0&nbsp;billion in theconsumer credit portfolio and $83.8&nbsp;billion in thewholesale credit portfolio. The increase in totalcredit exposure from the prior year reflects $319.2billion and $54.3 billion of additional credit exposure acquired inconnection with the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearns transactions,respectively.The exposure from the Washington Mutual transaction consisted of $271.7&nbsp;billion in theconsumer portfolio and $47.5&nbsp;billion in thewholesale portfolio, which was primarily commerciallending. The exposure from the Bear Stearns acquisition was includedin the wholesale portfolio. Excluding these twotransactions, there was a decrease of $174.7&nbsp;billionin overall credit exposure, which was largelydriven by decreases in lending-related commitments,partly offset by increases in derivativereceivables and managed loans.While overall portfolio exposure declined whenexcluding the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearnstransactions, the Firm provided over $150&nbsp;billionin new loans and lines of credit to retail andwholesale clients in the fourth quarter of 2008,including individual consumers, small businesses,large corporations, not-for-profit organizations,states and municipalities, and other financialinstitutions.In the table below, reported loans include loansaccounted for at fair value and loansheld-for-sale, which are carried at lower of costor fair value, with changes in value recorded innoninterest revenue. However, these held-for-saleloans and loans accounted for at fair value areexcluded from the average loan balances used forthe net charge-off rate calculations.Total credit portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsWHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;As of December&nbsp;31, 2008, wholesale exposure(IB, CB, TSS and AM) increased $83.8&nbsp;billion fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2007, primarily due to the BearStearns merger, which added $54.3&nbsp;billion of wholesale exposure in thesecond quarter of 2008 ($26.0&nbsp;billion ofreceivables from customers, $18.9&nbsp;billion ofderivative receivables, $5.0&nbsp;billion oflending-related commitments and $4.4&nbsp;billion ofloans) and the Washington Mutual transaction (whichadded $47.5&nbsp;billion of wholesale exposure in the thirdquarter of 2008, mainly consisting of loans).Excluding these two transactions,the portfolio decreased $18.0&nbsp;billion, largelydriven by decreases of $73.7&nbsp;billion inlending-related commitments and $9.9&nbsp;billion inreceivables from customers. Partly offsetting thesedecreases was an increase of $65.5&nbsp;billion inderivative receivables. The decrease inlending-related commitments was largely related toa reduction in multi-seller conduit-relatedcommitments. The increase in derivative receivableswas primarily related to the decline in interestrates, widening credit spreads and volatile foreignexchange rates reflected in interest rate, creditand foreign exchange derivatives, respectively. Foradditional information regarding conduit-relatedcommitments, see Note 17 on pages 177&#150;186 of thisAnnual Report.Excluding the Washington Mutual and Bear Stearnstransactions, retained loans increased $11.0billion reflecting increases in traditional lending activity while loans held-for-sale and loans at fairvalue decreased reflecting sales, reduced carrying valuesand lower volumes in the syndication market.WholesaleThe following table presents net charge-offs(excluding gains from sales of nonperformingloans), for the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2008 and2007.Net charge-offsThe following table presents the change in thewholesale nonperforming loan portfolio for theyears ended December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007.Nonperforming loan activity&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the wholesale nonperforming assets by business segment as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007.The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesaleportfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007. The increase in the proportion of loans maturing afterfive years was predominantly due to the Washington Mutual transaction. The ratings scale is basedupon the Firm's internal risk ratings and generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P andMoody's.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; maturity and ratings profile&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsWholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry concentrationThe Firm focuses on the management anddiversification of its industry concentrations,with particular attention paid to industries withactual or potential credit concerns. At December31, 2008, the top 15 industries to which the Firmis exposed remained largely unchanged from December31, 2007. The Firm's real estate industry exposureincreased from the prior year due to the WashingtonMutual transaction. Customer receivablesof $16.1&nbsp;billion in the table below represents primarily marginloans to prime and retail brokerage clients acquired in the Bear Stearns merger. Thesemargin loans are generally fully collateralized bycash or highly liquid securities to satisfy dailyminimum collateral requirements. For additionalinformation on industry concentrations, see Note 34on pages 210&#150;211 of this Annual Report.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry concentration&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Wholesale criticized exposureExposures deemed criticized generally represent aratings profile similar to a rating of&#147;CCC&#043;"/&#147;Caa1&#148; and lower, as defined by S&P andMoody's. The total criticized component of theportfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loansat fair value, increased to $26.0&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, from $6.8&nbsp;billion at year-end2007. The increase was driven primarily bydowngrades in the wholesale portfolio.Industry concentrations for wholesalecriticized exposure as of December&nbsp;31, 2008and 2007, were as follows.&nbsp;Presented below is a discussion of severalindustries to which the Firm has significantexposure, as well as industries the Firm continuesto monitor because of actual or potential creditconcerns. For additional information, refer to thetables above and on the preceding page.&nbsp; Table of ContentsDerivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm usesderivative instruments to meet the needs ofcustomers; generate revenue through tradingactivities; manage exposure to fluctuations ininterest rates, currencies and other markets; andmanage the Firm's credit exposure. The notionalamount of the Firm's derivative contractsoutstanding significantly exceeded, in the Firm'sview, the possible credit losses that could arisefrom such transactions. For most derivativetransactions, the notional amount does not changehands; it is used simply as a reference tocalculate payments. For further discussion of thesecontracts, see Note 32 and Note 34 on pages202&#150;205 and 210&#150;211 of this Annual Report.The following tables summarize the aggregatenotional amounts and the net derivative receivablesMTM for the periods presented.Notional amounts of derivative contracts&nbsp;Derivative receivables marked to market (&#147;MTM&#148;)The amount of derivative receivables reportedon the Consolidated Balance Sheets of $162.6billion and $77.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and2007, respectively, is the amount of themark-to-market value (&#147;MTM&#148;) or fair value of thederivative contracts after giving effect to legallyenforceable master netting agreements and cashcollateral held by the Firm. These amountsrepresent the cost to the Firm to replace thecontracts at current market rates should thecounterparty default. However, in management'sview, the appropriate measure of current creditrisk should also reflect additional liquidsecurities held as collateral by the Firm of $19.8billion and $9.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and2007, respectively, resulting in total exposure,net of all collateral, of $142.8&nbsp;billion and $67.3billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007,respectively. Derivative receivables, net ofcollateral, increased $75.5&nbsp;billion from December31, 2007, primarily related to the decline ininterest rates, widening credit spreads andvolatile foreign exchange rates reflected ininterest rate, credit and foreign exchangederivatives, respectively. The increase in 2008also included positions acquired in the BearStearns merger.The Firm also holds additional collateral deliveredby clients at the initiation of transactions, andalthough this collateral does not reduce thebalances noted in the table above, it is availableas security against potential exposure that couldarise should the MTM of the client's transactionsmove in the Firm's favor. As of December&nbsp;31, 2008and 2007, the Firm held $22.2&nbsp;billion and $17.4billion of this additional collateral,respectively. The derivative receivables MTM alsodo not include other credit enhancements in theform of letters of credit.While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variabilityof that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firmcalculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related creditloss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;), andAverage exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures allincorporate netting and collateral benefits, whereapplicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is ameasure of exposure calculated at a 97.5%confidence level. Derivative Risk Equivalentexposure is a measure that expresses the risk ofderivative exposure on a basis intended to beequivalent to the risk of loan exposures. Themeasurement is done by equating the unexpectedloss in a derivative counterparty exposure (whichtakes into consideration&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisboth the loss volatility and the credit ratingof the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in aloan exposure (which takes into consideration onlythe credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is aless extreme measure of potential credit loss thanPeak and is the primary measure used by the Firmfor credit approval of derivative transactions.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected MTM valueof the Firm's derivative receivables at future timeperiods, including the benefit of collateral. AVGexposure over the total life of the derivativecontract is used as the primary metric for pricingpurposes and is used to calculate credit capitaland the Credit Valuation Adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;), asfurther described below. Average exposure was $83.7billion and$47.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007,respectively, compared with derivativereceivables MTM, net of all collateral, of $142.8billion and $67.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008and 2007, respectively.The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivablesincorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflectthe credit quality of counterparties. The CVA isbased upon the Firm's AVG to a counterparty andthe counterparty's credit spread in the creditderivatives market. The primary components ofchanges in CVA are credit spreads, new dealactivity or unwinds, and changes in the underlyingmarket environment. The Firm believes that activerisk management is essential tocontrolling the dynamic credit risk in thederivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm takesinto consideration the potential for correlationbetween the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and thecounterparty's credit quality within the creditapproval process. The Firm risk manages exposureto changes in CVA by entering into creditderivative transactions, as well as interest rate,foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivativetransactions.The graph below shows exposure profiles toderivatives over the next ten years as calculatedby the DRE and AVG metrics. The two measuresgenerally show declining exposure after the firstyear, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresThe following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's derivative receivables MTM,net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated.Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe increase in noninvestment grade derivativereceivables reflects a weakening creditenvironment. The Firm actively pursues the use ofcollateral agreements to mitigate counterpartycredit risk in derivatives. The percentage of theFirm's derivatives transactions subject tocollateral agreements was 83% as of December&nbsp;31,2008, largely unchanged from 82% at December31, 2007.The Firm posted $99.1&nbsp;billion and $33.5billion of collateral at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and2007, respectively.Certain derivative and collateral agreementsinclude provisions that require the counterpartyand/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in theirrespective credit ratings, to post collateral forthe benefit of the other party. The impact of asingle-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., from its rating of &#147;AA-&#148; to &#147;A&#043;&#148; atDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, would have required $2.2&nbsp;billionof additional collateral to be posted by the Firm.The impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (from &#147;AA-&#148; to&#147;BBB-&#148;) would have required $6.4&nbsp;billion of additional collateral. Certain derivative contracts also provide fortermination of the contract, generally upon adowngrade of either the Firm or the counterparty,at the then-existing MTM value of the derivativecontracts.Credit derivativesCredit derivatives are financial contracts thatisolate credit risk from an underlying instrument(such as a loan or security) and transfer that riskfrom one party (the buyer of credit protection) toanother (the seller of credit protection). The Firmis both a purchaser and seller of creditprotection. As a purchaser of credit protection,the Firm has risk that the counterparty providingthe credit protection will default. As a seller ofcredit protection, the Firm has risk that theunderlying instrument referenced in the contractwill be subject to a credit event. Of the Firm's $162.6&nbsp;billion of total derivative receivables MTMat December&nbsp;31, 2008, $44.7&nbsp;billion, or 27%, wasassociated with credit derivatives, before thebenefit of liquid securities collateral.One type of creditderivatives the Firm enters into with counterparties are creditdefaults swaps (&#147;CDS&#148;). Forfurther detailed discussion of these and othertypes of credit derivatives, see Note 32 on pages202&#150;205 of this Annual Report. The large majority of CDS are subject tocollateral arrangements to protect the Firm fromcounterparty credit risk. In 2008, the frequencyand size of defaults for both tradingcounterparties and the underlying debt referencedin credit derivatives were well abovehistorical norms. The use of collateral tosettle against defaulting counterparties generallyperformed as designed in significantly mitigatingthe Firm's exposure to these counterparties.During 2008, the Firm worked with other significantmarket participants to develop mechanisms to reducecounterparty credit risk, including thecancellation of offsetting trades. In 2009, it isanticipated that one or more central counterpartiesfor CDS will be established and JPMorgan Chase willface these central counterparties, or clearinghouses, for an increasingportion of its CDS business.The Firm usescredit derivatives for two primary purposes: first,in its capacity as a market-maker in thedealer/client business to meet the needs ofcustomers; and second, in order to mitigate theFirm's own credit risk associated with its overallderivative receivables and traditional commercialcredit lending exposures (loans and unfundedcommitments), as well as its exposure toresidential and commercial mortgages.The following table presents the Firm's notionalamounts of credit derivatives protection purchasedand sold as of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007,distinguishing between dealer/client activity andcredit portfolio activity.&nbsp;Dealer/client businessWithin the dealer/client business, the Firmactively utilizes credit derivatives by buying andselling credit protection, predominantly oncorporate debt obligations, in response to clientdemand for credit risk protection on the underlyingreference instruments. Protection may be bought orsold by the Firm on single reference debtinstruments (&#147;single-name&#148; credit derivatives),portfolios of referenced instruments (&#147;portfolio&#148;credit derivatives) or quoted indices (&#147;indexed&#148;credit derivatives). The risk positions are largelymatched as the Firm's exposure to a given referenceentity under a contract to sell protection to acounterparty may be offset partially, or entirely,with a contract to purchase protection from anothercounterparty on the same underlying instrument. Anyresidual default exposure and spread risk isactively managed by the Firm's various tradingdesks.At December&nbsp;31, 2008, the total notional amount ofprotection purchased and sold increased $421billion from year-end 2007. The increase wasprimarily as a result of the merger with BearStearns, partially offset by the impact ofindustry efforts to reduce offsetting tradeactivity.Credit portfolio activitiesIn managing its wholesale credit exposure the Firmpurchases protection through single-name andportfolio credit derivatives to manage the creditrisk associated with loans, lending-relatedcommitments and derivative receivables. Gains orlosses on the credit derivatives are expected tooffset the unrealized increase or decrease in&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysiscredit risk on the loans, lending-relatedcommitments or derivative receivables. Thisactivity does not reduce the reported level ofassets on the balance sheet or the level ofreported off-balance sheet commitments, though itdoes provide the Firm with credit risk protection.The Firm also diversifies its exposures by sellingcredit protection, which increases exposure toindustries or clients where the Firm has little orno client-related exposure, however, this activity is not material tothe Firm's overall credit exposure.Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives&nbsp;The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chasefor credit portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, andtherefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 isnot performed. Loan interest and fees are generallyrecognized in net interest income, and impairmentis recognized in the provision for credit losses.This asymmetry in accounting treatment betweenloans and lending-related commitments and thecredit derivatives utilized in credit portfoliomanagement activities causes earnings volatilitythat is not representative, in the Firm's view, ofthe true changes in value of the Firm's overallcredit exposure. The MTM related to the Firm'scredit derivatives used for managing creditexposure, as well as the MTM related to the CVA,which reflects the credit quality of derivativescounterparty exposure, are included in the tablebelow. These results can vary from period to perioddue to market conditions that impact specificpositions in the portfolio. For a furtherdiscussion of credit derivatives, see Note 32 onpages 202&#150;205 of this Annual Report.&nbsp;The Firm also actively manages wholesale creditexposure through IB and CB loan and commitmentsales. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, these sales of$3.9&nbsp;billion, $4.9&nbsp;billion and $4.0&nbsp;billion ofloans and commitments, respectively, resulted inlosses of $41&nbsp;million and $7&nbsp;million in 2008 and2007 and gains of $83&nbsp;million in 2006,respectively. These results include gains on salesof nonperforming loans, as discussed on page 83 ofthis Annual Report. These activities are notrelated to the Firm's securitization activities,which are undertaken for liquidity and balancesheet management purposes. For a further discussionof securitization activity, see Liquidity RiskManagementand Note 16 on pages 76&#150;80 and 168&#150;176,respectively, of this Annual Report.Lending-related commitmentsWholesale lending-related commitments were$379.9&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2008, compared with$446.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2007. The decreasewas largely related to a reduction in multi-sellerconduit-related commitments. In the Firm's view,the total contractual amount of these instrumentsis not representative of the Firm's actual creditrisk exposure or funding requirements. Indetermining the amount of credit risk exposure theFirm has to wholesale lending-related commitments,which is used as the basis for allocating creditrisk capital to these instruments, the Firm hasestablished a &#147;loan-equivalent&#148; amount for eachcommitment; this amount represents the portion ofthe unused commitment or other contingent exposurethat is expected, based upon average portfoliohistorical experience, to become outstanding in theevent of a default by an obligor. Theloan-equivalent amount of the Firm'slending-related commitments was $204.3&nbsp;billion and$238.7&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007,respectively.Emerging markets country exposureThe Firm has a comprehensive internal processfor measuring and managing exposures to emergingmarkets countries. There is no common definition ofemerging markets but the Firm generally, though notexclusively, includes in its definition thosecountries whose sovereign debt ratings areequivalent to &#147;A&#043;&#148; or lower. Exposures to a countryinclude all credit-related lending, trading andinvestment activities, whether cross-border orlocally funded. In addition to monitoring countryexposures, the Firm uses stress tests to measureandmanage the risk of extreme loss associated withsovereign crises.The following table presents the Firm's exposure tothe top five emerging markets countries. Theselection of countries is based solely on theFirm's largest total exposures by country and notthe Firm's view of any actual or potentiallyadverse credit conditions. Exposure is reportedbased upon the country where the assets of theobligor, counterparty or guarantor are located.Exposure amounts are adjusted for collateral andfor credit enhancements (e.g., guarantees andletters of credit) provided by third parties;outstandings supported by a guarantor outside thecountry or backed by collateral held outside thecountry are assigned to the country of theenhancement provider. In addition, the effects ofcredit derivative hedges and other short credit orequity trading positions are reflected in thefollowing table. Total exposure includes exposureto both government and private sector entities in acountry.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTop 5 emerging markets country exposure&nbsp;CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consistsprimarily of residential mortgages, home equityloans, credit cards, auto loans, student loans andbusiness banking loans, with a primary focus onserving the primeconsumer credit market. The consumer creditportfolio also includes certain loans acquired inthe Washington Mutual transaction, primarilymortgage, home equity and credit card loans. TheRFS portfolio includes home equity lines of creditand mortgage loans with interest-only paymentoptions to predominantly prime borrowers, as wellas certain payment option loans acquired fromWashington Mutual that may result in negativeamortization.A substantial portion of the consumer loansacquired in the Washington Mutual transaction wereidentified as credit-impaired in the third quarterof 2008 based on a preliminary analysis of theacquired portfolio. In addition, as of theacquisition date, a $1.4&nbsp;billion accountingconformity provision was recorded to reflect theFirm's preliminary estimate of incurred lossesrelated to the portion of the acquired consumerloans that were not considered to becredit-impaired. During the fourth quarter of 2008,the analysis of acquired loans was substantiallycompleted, resulting in a $12.4billion increase in the credit-impaired loan balances and acorresponding decrease in the non-credit-impairedloan balances. In addition, the estimate ofincurred losses related to the non-credit-impairedportfolio was finalized, resulting in a $476million decrease in the accounting conformityprovision for these loans. The purchasedcredit-impaired loans, which were identified asimpaired based on an analysis of riskcharacteristics, including product type,loan-to-value ratios, FICO scores and delinquencystatus, are accounted for under SOP 03-3 and wererecorded at fair value under SOP 03-3 as of theacquisition date. The fair value of these loansincludes an estimate of losses that are expected tobe incurred over the estimated remaining lives ofthe loans, and therefore no allowance for loanlosses was recorded for these loans as of thetransaction date.The credit performance of the consumer portfolioacross the entire consumer credit product spectrumcontinues to be negatively affected by the economicenvironment. High unemployment and weaker overalleconomic conditions have resulted in increaseddelinquencies, and continued weak housing priceshave driven a significant increase in lossseverity. Nonperforming loans and assets continuedto increase through year-end 2008, a key indicatorthat charge-offs will continue to rise in 2009.Additional deterioration in the overall economicenvironment, including continued deterioration inthe labor market, could cause delinquencies toincrease beyond the Firm's current expectations,resulting in significant increases in losses in2009.Over the past year, the Firm has taken actions toreduce risk exposure by tightening bothunderwriting and loan qualification standards forreal estate lending, as well as for consumerlending for non-real estate products. Tighterincome verification, more conservative collateralvaluation, reduced loan-to-value maximums andhigher FICO and custom risk score requirements arejust some of the actions taken to date to mitigaterisk. These actions have resulted in significantreductions in new originations of &#147;risk layered&#148;loans (e.g., loans with highloan-to-value ratios to borrowers with low FICOscores) and improved alignment of loan pricing. Neworiginations of subprime mortgage loans, optionARMs and broker originated-mortgage and home equityloans have been eliminated entirely.In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Firm announcedplans to significantly expand loss mitigationefforts related to its mortgage and home equityportfolios, including a systematic review of thereal estate portfolio to identify homeowners mostin need of assistance. In addition, the Firmannounced plans to open regional counselingcenters, hire additional loan counselors, introducenew financing alternatives, proactively reach outto borrowers to offer pre-qualified modifications,and commence a new process to independently revieweach&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisloan before moving it into the foreclosureprocess. During the implementation period of theseloss mitigation efforts, which were substantiallycomplete in early 2009, the Firm did not placeloans into foreclosure. These loss mitigationefforts, which generally represent various formsof term extensions, rate reductions andforbearances, areexpectedto result in additional increases in the balances of modified loans carried on the Firm'sbalance sheet, including loans accounted for astroubled debt restructurings, while minimizing theeconomic loss to the Firm and assisting homeownersto remain in their homes.The following table presents managed consumer credit&#150;related information for the dates indicated.Consumer portfolio&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table presents the consumer nonperforming assets by business segment as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007.The Firm regularly evaluates market conditionsand overall economic returns and makes an initialdetermination of whether new originations will beheld-for-investment or sold within the foreseeablefuture. The Firm also periodically evaluates theexpected economic returns of previously originatedloans under prevailing market conditions todetermine whether their designation asheld-for-sale or held-for-investment continues tobe appropriate. When the Firm determines that achange in this designation is appropriate, theloans are transferred to the appropriateclassification. During the third and fourthquarters of 2007, in response to changes in marketconditions, the Firm designated asheld-for-investment all new originations ofsubprime mortgage loans, as well as subprimemortgage loans that were previously designatedheld-for-sale. In addition, all new prime mortgageoriginations that cannot be sold to U.S. governmentagencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterpriseshave been designated as held-for-investment. Primemortgage loans originated with the intent to sellare accounted for at fair value under SFAS 159 andare classified as trading assets in theConsolidated Balance Sheets.The following discussion relates to the specificloan and lending-related categories within theconsumer portfolio. Information regarding combined loan-to-value ratios(&#147;CLTVs&#148;) and loan-to-value ratios (&#147;LTVs&#148;) wereestimated based on the initial appraisal obtained at the time oforigination, adjusted using relevant market indices for housing pricechanges that have occurred since origination. The estimated value ofthe homes could vary from actual market values due to changes incondition of the underlying property, variations in housing pricechanges within metropolitan statistical areas (&#147;MSAs&#148;) andother factors.Home equity: Home equity loans at December&nbsp;31,2008, were $114.3&nbsp;billion, excluding purchasedcredit-impaired loans, an increase of $19.5&nbsp;billionfrom year-end 2007, primarily reflecting theaddition of loans acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction. The 2008 provision for credit lossesfor the home equity portfolio includes netincreases of $2.2&nbsp;billion to the allowance for loanlosses for 2008 for the heritage JPMorgan Chaseportfolio as a result of the economic environmentnoted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effective CLTVs in excess of 100%represented approximately 22% of the home equity portfolio. Inresponse to continued economic weakness, loanunderwriting and account management criteria havebeen tightened, with a particular focus onmetropolitanstatistical areas (&#147;MSAs&#148;) with the mostsignificant housing price declines. Neworiginations of home equity loans have decreasedsignificantly, as additional loss mitigationstrategies have been employed; these strategiesinclude the elimination of stated income and brokeroriginated loans, a significant reduction ofmaximum CLTVs fornew originations, which now range from 50% to 70%,and additional restrictions on new originations ingeographic areas experiencing the greatest housingprice depreciation and highest unemployment. Otherloss mitigation strategies include the reduction orclosure of outstanding credit lines for borrowerswho have experienced significant increases in CLTVsor decreases in creditworthiness (e.g. declines inFICO scores.)Mortgage: Mortgage loans at December&nbsp;31, 2008,which include prime mortgages, subprime mortgages,option ARMs and loans held-for-sale, were $96.8billion, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans,reflecting a $40.8&nbsp;billion increase from year-end2007, primarily reflecting the addition of loansacquired in the Washington Mutual transaction.Prime mortgages of $72.5&nbsp;billion increased $31.9billion from December&nbsp;2007 as a result of loansacquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and,to a lesser extent, additional originations intothe portfolio. The 2008 provision for credit lossesincludes a net increase of $1.1&nbsp;billion to theallowance for loan losses for the heritage JPMorganChase portfolio as a result of the economicenvironment noted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effectiveLTVs in excess of 100%represented approximately 18% of the prime mortgage portfolio.The Firm has tightened underwriting standards fornonconforming prime mortgages in recent quarters,including eliminating stated income products,reducing LTV maximums, and eliminating the brokerorigination channel.Subprime mortgages of $15.3&nbsp;billion, excludingpurchased credit-impaired loans, decreased slightlyfrom December&nbsp;31, 2007, as the discontinuation ofnew originations was predominantly offset by loansacquired in the Washington Mutual transaction. Theyear-to-date provision for credit losses includes anet increase of $1.4&nbsp;billion to the allowance forloan losses for the heritage JPMorgan Chaseportfolio as a result of the economic environmentnoted above. The Firm estimates that loans with effectiveLTVs in excess of 100% represented approximately 27%of the subprime mortgage portfolio.Option ARMs of $9.0&nbsp;billion, excluding purchasedcredit-impaired loans, were acquired in theWashington Mutual transaction. New originationsof option ARMs were discontinued by Washington&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisMutual prior to the date of the WashingtonMutual transaction. This portfolio is primarilycomprised of loanswith low LTVs and high borrower FICOs and for whichthe Firm currently expects substantially lowerlosses in comparison with the purchasedcredit-impaired portfolio. The Firm has not, anddoes not, originate option ARMs.Option ARMs are adjustable-rate mortgage productsthat provide the borrower with the option to make afully amortizing, interest-only, or minimumpayment. The minimum payment is based upon theinterest rate charged during the introductoryperiod. This introductory rate is typically wellbelow the fully indexed rate. The fully indexedrate is calculated using an index rate plus amargin. Once the introductory period ends, thecontractual interest rate charged on the loanincreases to the fully indexed rate. If theborrower continues to make the minimum monthlypayment after the introductory period ends, thepayment may not be sufficient to cover interestaccrued in the previous month. In this case, theloan will &#147;negatively amortize&#148; as unpaid interestis deferred and added to the principal balance ofthe loan. Option ARMs typically become fullyamortizing loans upon reaching a negativeamortization cap or on dates specified in theborrowing agreement, at which time the requiredmonthly payment generally increases substantially.Auto loans: As of December&nbsp;31, 2008, auto loans of$42.6&nbsp;billion increased slightly from year-end2007. The allowance for loan losses for the autoloan portfolio was increased during 2008,reflecting an increase in estimated losses due toan increase in loss severity and furtherdeterioration of older vintage loans as a result ofthe worsening credit environment and declines inauto resale values. The auto loan portfolioreflects a high concentration of prime qualitycredits. In response to recent increases in loandelinquencies and credit losses, particularly inMSAs experiencing the greatest housing pricedepreciation and highest unemployment, creditunderwriting criteria have been tightened, whichhas resulted in the reduction of both extended-termand high loan-to-value financing.Credit card: JPMorgan Chase analyzes its creditcard portfolio on a managed basis, which includescredit card receivables on the Consolidated BalanceSheets and those receivables sold to investorsthrough securitization. Managed credit cardreceivables were $190.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31,2008, an increase of $33.3&nbsp;billion from year-end2007, reflecting the acquisition of credit cardloans as part of the Washington Mutual transaction,as well as organic growth in the portfolio.The managed credit card net charge-off rateincreased to 5.01% for 2008 from 3.68% in 2007.This increase was due primarily to highercharge-offs as a result of the current economicenvironment, especially in areas experiencing thegreatest housing price depreciation and highestunemployment. The 30-day managed delinquency rateincreased to 4.97% at December&nbsp;31, 2008, from 3.48%at December&nbsp;31, 2007, partially as a result of theaddition of creditcard loans acquired in the Washington Mutualtransaction. Excluding the Washington Mutualportfolio, the 30-day managed delinquency rate was4.36%. The Allowance for loan losses was increaseddue to higher estimated net charge-offs in theportfolio. As a result of continued weakness inhousing markets, account acquisition creditcriteria and account management credit practiceshave been tightened, particularly in MSAsexperiencing significant home price declines. Themanaged credit card portfolio continues to reflecta well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfoliothat has good U.S. geographic diversification.All other loans: All other loans primarily includebusiness banking loans (which are highlycollateralized loans, often with personal loanguarantees), student loans, and other secured andunsecured consumer loans. As of December&nbsp;31, 2008,other loans, including loans held-for-sale, of$35.5&nbsp;billion were up $6.8&nbsp;billion from year-end2007, primarily as a result of organic growth inbusiness banking loans and student loans, as wellas an increase in business banking loans as aresult of the Washington Mutual transaction.Purchased credit-impaired loans: Purchasedcredit-impaired loans of $88.8&nbsp;billion in the homelending portfolio represent loans acquired in theWashington Mutual transaction that were recorded atfair value at the time of acquisition under SOP03-3. The fair value of these loans includes anestimate of losses that are expected to be incurredover the estimated remaining lives of the loans,and therefore no allowance for loan losses wasrecorded for these loans as of the transactiondate. Through year-end 2008, the credit performanceof these loans has generally been consistent withthe assumptions used in determining the initialfair value of these loans, and the Firm's originalexpectations regarding the amounts and timing offuture cash flows has not changed. A probabledecrease in management's expectation of future cashcollections related to these loans could result inthe need to record an allowance for credit lossesrelated to these loans in the future. A significantand probable increase in expected cash flows wouldgenerally result in an increase in interest incomerecognized over the remaining life of theunderlying pool of loans.Other real estate owned: As part of the residentialreal estate foreclosure process, loans are writtendown to net realizable value less a cost to sellthe asset. In those instances where the Firm gainstitle, ownership and possession of individualproperties at the completion of the foreclosureprocess, these Other Real Estate Owned (OREO)assets are managed for prompt sale and dispositionat the best possible economic value. Any furthergain or loss on sale of the disposition of OREOassets are recorded as part of other income.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following tables present the geographic distribution of consumer credit outstandings by productas of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007, excluding purchased credit-impaired loans.Consumer loans by geographic regionConsumer loans by geographic region&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis&nbsp;ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses isintended to cover probable credit losses, includinglosses where the asset is not specificallyidentified or the size of the loss has not beenfully determined. At least quarterly, the allowancefor credit losses is reviewed by the ChiefExecutive Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, theChief Financial Officer and the Controller of theFirm, and discussed with the Risk Policy and AuditCommittees of the Board of Directors of the Firm.The allowance is reviewed relative to the riskprofile of the Firm's credit portfolio and currenteconomic conditions and is adjusted if, inmanagement's judgment, changes are warranted. Theallowance includes an asset-specific and aformula-based component. For further discussion ofthe components of the allowance for credit losses,see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firmon pages 107&#150;111 and Note 15 on pages 166&#150;168 ofthis Annual Report. At December&nbsp;31, 2008,management deemed the allowance for credit lossesto be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorblosses that are inherent in the portfolio,including losses that are not specificallyidentified or for which the size of the loss hasnot yet been fully determined).&nbsp; Table of ContentsSummary of changes in the allowance for credit losses&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisThe allowance for credit losses increased $13.7billion from the prior year to $23.8&nbsp;billion. The increaseincluded $4.1&nbsp;billion of allowance related to noncredit impairedloans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction and the relatedaccounting conformity provision. Excluding held-for-sale loans, loanscarried at fair value, and purchasedcredit-impaired consumer loans, the allowance forloan losses represented3.62% of loans at December&nbsp;31, 2008, comparedwith 1.88% at December&nbsp;31, 2007.The consumer allowance for loan losses increased$10.5&nbsp;billion from the prior year as a result ofthe Washington Mutual transaction and increasedallowance for loan loss in residential real estateand credit card. The increase included additions tothe allowance for loan losses of $4.7&nbsp;billiondriven by higher estimated losses for residentialmortgage and home equity loans as the weak labormarket and weak overall economic conditions haveresulted in increased delinquencies, whilecontinued weak housing prices have driven asignificant increase in loss severity. Theallowance for loan losses related to credit cardincreased $4.3&nbsp;billion from the prior yearprimarily due to the acquired allowance andsubsequent conforming provision for loan lossrelated to the Washington Mutual Bank acquisitionand an increase in provision for loan losses of$2.3&nbsp;billion in 2008 over2007, as higher estimated net-charge offs areexpected in the portfolio resulting from thecurrent economic conditions.The wholesale allowance for loan losses increase of$3.4&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2007, reflected theeffect of a weakening credit environment and thetransfer of $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfundedleveraged lending commitments to retained loansfrom held-for-sale.To provide forthe risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process ofextending credit, an allowance for lending-relatedcommitments is held for both wholesale andconsumer, which is reported in other liabilities.The wholesale component is computed using amethodology similar to that used for the wholesaleloan portfolio, modified for expected maturitiesand probabilities of drawdown and has anasset-specific component and a formula-basedcomponent. For a further discussion on theallowance for lending-related commitment see Note&nbsp;15 on page 166&#150;168 of this Annual Report. The allowance for lending-related commitments forboth wholesale and consumer was $659&nbsp;million and $850million at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007,respectively. The decrease reflects the reductionin lending-related commitments at December&nbsp;31, 2008. For more information see page 90 of this Annual Report.The following table presents the allowance for loan losses and net charge-offs (recoveries)&nbsp;bybusiness segment at December&nbsp;31, 2008 and 2007.&nbsp; Table of ContentsProvision for credit lossesThe managed provision for credit losses includes amounts related to credit cardsecuritizations. For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, the increase in the provision for creditlosses was due to year-over-year increase in the allowance forcredit losses largely related to the home equity, subprime mortgage, prime mortgage and credit card loan portfolios in the consumerbusinesses as well as in the allowance for credit losses related tothe wholesale portfolio. The increase in the wholesale provision for loanlosses from the prior year was due to the weakening credit environment, loan growth and thetransfer of $4.9&nbsp;billion of funded and unfunded leverage lending commitments to retained loans fromheld-for-sale. The decrease in provision for lending-related commitments from the prior yearbenefited from reduced balances of lending-related commitments.&nbsp;MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Market risk is the exposure to an adversechange in the market value of portfolios andfinancial instruments caused by a change in marketprices or rates.Market risk managementMarket risk is identified, measured, monitored, andcontrolled by Market Risk, a corporate riskgovernance function independent of the lines ofbusiness. Market Risk seeks to facilitate efficientrisk/return decisions, reduce volatility inoperating performance and make the Firm's marketrisk profile transparent to senior management, theBoard of Directors and regulators. Market Risk isoverseen by the Chief Risk Officer and performs thefollowing functions:Risk identification and classificationMarket Risk works in partnership with thebusiness segments to identify market risksthroughout the Firm and define and monitormarket risk policies and procedures. Allbusiness segments areresponsible for the comprehensive identificationand verification of market risks within theirunits. Risk-taking businesses have functions thatact independently from trading personnel and areresponsible for verifying risk exposures that thebusiness takes. In addition to providingindependent oversight for market risk arising fromthe business segments, Market Risk is alsoresponsible for identifying exposures which may notbe large within individual business segments butwhich may be large for the Firm in the aggregate.Regular meetings are held between Market Risk andthe heads of risk-taking businesses to discuss anddecide on risk exposures in the context of themarket environment and client flows.Positions that expose the Firm to market risk canbe classified into two categories: trading andnontrading risk. Trading risk includes positionsthat are held by the Firm as part of a businesssegment or unit, the main business strategy ofwhich is to trade or make markets. Unrealized gains and losses in these positions aregenerally reported in principal transactionsrevenue. Nontrading risk includes securities andother assets held for longer-term investment,mortgage servicing rights, and securities andderivatives used to manage the Firm'sasset/liability exposures. Unrealized gains andlosses in these positions are generally notreported in principal transactions revenue.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisTrading riskThe Firm makes markets and trades its productsacross several different asset classes. These assetclasses include primarily fixed income (whichincludes interest rate risk and credit spreadrisk), foreign exchange, equities and commodities.Trading risk arises from positions in these assetclasses and may lead to the potential decline innet income (i.e., economic sensitivity)due to adverse changes in market rates, whetherarising from client activities or proprietarypositions taken by the Firm.Nontrading riskNontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm'score business strategies, the delivery of productsand services to its customers, and the positionsthe Firm undertakes to risk-manage its exposures.These exposures can result from a variety offactors, including differences in the timing amongthe maturity or repricing of assets, liabilitiesand off-balance sheet instruments. Changes in thelevel and shape of market interest rate curves alsomay create interest rate risk, since the repricingcharacteristics of the Firm's assets do notnecessarily match those of its liabilities. TheFirm is also exposed to basis risk, which is thedifference in the repricing characteristics of twofloating-rate indices, such as the prime rate and3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of the Firm'sproducts have embedded optionality that impactpricing and balances.The Firm's mortgage banking activities give rise tocomplex interest rate risks, as well as option andbasis risk. Option risk arises primarily fromprepayment options embedded in mortgages andchanges in the probability of newly originatedmortgage commitments actually closing. Basis riskresults from different relative movements betweenmortgage rates and other interest rates.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspectsof market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, bothstatistical and nonstatistical, including:Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures other than stresstesting include net open positions, basis pointvalues, option sensitivities, market values,position concentrations and position turnover.These measures provide granular information on theFirm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated byline of business and by risk type, and are used formonitoring limits, one-off approvals and tacticalcontrol.Value-at-risk (&#147;VaR&#148;)JPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure,VaR, estimates the potential loss from adversemarket moves in an ordinary market environment andprovides a consistent cross-business measure ofrisk profiles and levels of diversification. VaR isused for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring limits, and as an input to economiccapital calculations. VaR provides risktransparency in a normal trading environment. Eachbusiness day the Firm undertakes a comprehensiveVaR calculation that includes both its trading andits nontrading risks. VaR for nontrading riskmeasures the amount of potential change in the fairvalues of the exposures related to these risks;however, for such risks, VaR is not a measure ofreported revenue since nontrading activities aregenerally not marked to market through net income.Hedges of nontrading activities may be included intrading VaR since they are marked to market.To calculate VaR, the Firm uses historicalsimulation, based on a one-day time horizon and anexpected tail-loss methodology, which measures riskacross instruments and portfolios in a consistentand comparable way. The simulation is based upondata for the previous 12&nbsp;months. This approachassumes that historical changes in market valuesare representative of future changes; this is anassumption that may not always be accurate,particularly given the volatility in the currentmarket environment. For certain products, an actualprice time series is not available. In such cases,the historical simulation is done using a proxytime series to estimate the risk. It is likely thatusing an actual price time series for theseproducts, if available, would impact the VaRresults presented. In addition, certain riskparameters, such as correlation risk among certainIB trading instruments, are not fully captured inVaR.In the third quarter of 2008, the Firm revised itsVaR measurement to include additional riskpositions previously excluded from VaR, thuscreating, in the Firm's view, a more comprehensiveview of its market risks. In addition, the Firmmoved to calculating VaR using a 95% confidencelevel to provide a more stable measure of the VaRfor day-to-day risk management. The following sections describe JPMorgan Chase'sVaR measures under both the legacy 99% confidencelevel as well as the new 95% confidence level. TheFirm intends to solely present the VaR at the 95%confidence level once information for two completeyear-to-date periods is available.&nbsp; Table of Contents99% Confidence Level VaR&nbsp;IB trading VaR by risk type and credit portfolio VaR&nbsp;Trading VaR includes substantially all tradingactivities in IB. Beginning in the fourth quarterof 2008, the credit spread sensitivities of certainmortgage products were included in trading VaR.This change had an insignificant net impact on theaverage fourth quarter 2008 VaR. However, tradingVaR does not include: held-for-sale funded loan andunfunded commitments positions (however, it doesinclude hedges of those positions); the debitvaluation adjustments (&#147;DVA&#148;) taken on derivativeand structured liabilities to reflect the creditquality of the Firm; the MSR portfolio; andsecurities and instruments held by corporatefunctions, such as Corporate/Private Equity. Seethe DVA Sensitivity table on page 103 of thisAnnual Report for further details. For a discussionof MSRs and the corporate functions, see Note 4 onpages 129&#150;143, Note 18 on pages 186&#150;189 andCorporate/ Private Equity on pages 61&#150;63 of thisAnnual Report.2008VaR resultsIB's average total trading and credit portfolio VaRwas $202&nbsp;million for 2008, compared with $106million for 2007, and includes the positions fromthe Bear Stearns merger since May&nbsp;31, 2008. Theincrease in averageand maximum VaR during 2008 compared with the prioryear was primarily due to increased volatilityacross virtually all asset classes. In addition,increased hedges of positions not specificallycaptured in VaR &#150; for example, macro hedgestrategies that have been deployed to mitigate theconsequences of a systemic risk event and hedges ofloans held-for-sale &#150; significantly increased theVaR compared with the prior period.For 2008, compared with the prior year, averagetrading VaR diversification increased to $108million from $77&nbsp;million, reflecting the impact ofthe Bear Stearns merger. In general, over thecourse of the year, VaR exposures can varysignificantly as positions change, marketvolatility fluctuates and diversification benefitschange.VaRbacktestingTo evaluate the soundness of its VaR model, theFirm conducts daily back-testing of VaR againstdaily IB market risk-related revenue, which isdefined as the change in value of principaltransactions revenue (less Private Equitygains/losses) plus any trading-related net interestincome, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees orother revenue. The daily IB market risk-relatedrevenue excludes gains and losses on held-for-salefunded loans and unfunded commitments and from DVA.The following histogram illustrates the dailymarket risk-related gains and losses for IB tradingbusinesses for the year ended 2008. The chart showsthat IB posted market risk-related gains on 165 ofthe 262&nbsp;days in this period, with 54&nbsp;days exceeding$120&nbsp;million. The inset graph looks at those dayson which IB experienced losses and depicts theamount by which 99% confidence level VaR exceededthe actual loss on each of those days. During theyear ended December&nbsp;31, 2008, losses were sustainedon 97&nbsp;days; losses exceeded the VaR measure onthree of those days compared with eight days forthe year ended 2007. The Firm would expect to incurlosses greater than those predicted by the 99%confidence level VaR estimates once in every 100trading days, or about two to three times a year.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysis95% Confidence Level VaRTotal IB trading VaR by risk type, credit portfolio VaR and other VaRThe Firm's new 95% VaR measure includes allthe risk positions taken into account under the99% confidence level VaR measure, as well assyndicated lending facilities the Firm intends todistribute (and, beginning in the fourth quarterof 2008, the credit spread sensitivities ofcertain mortgage products). The Firm utilizesproxiesto estimate the VaR for these mortgage and creditproducts since daily time series are largely notavailable. In addition, the new VaR measureincludes certain actively managed positionsutilized as part of the Firm's risk managementfunction within Corporate and in the ConsumerLending businesses to provide a total IB and otherVaR&nbsp; Table of Contentsmeasure. In the Firm's view, including theseitems in VaR produces a more complete perspectiveof the Firm's risk profile for items with marketrisk that can impact the income statement. TheConsumer Lending VaR includes the Firm's mortgagepipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs and all relatedhedges.The revised VaR measure continues to exclude theDVA taken on derivative and structured liabilitiesto reflect the credit quality of the Firm. It alsoexcludes certain nontrading activity such asPrivate Equity, principal investing (e.g.,mezzanine financing, tax-oriented investments,etc.) and Corporate balance sheet and capitalmanagement positions, as well as longer-termcorporate investments. Corporate positions aremanaged through the Firm's earnings-at-risk andother cash flow monitoring processes rather than byusing a VaR measure. Nontrading principal investingactivities and Private Equity positions are managedusing stress and scenario analyses.Changing to the 95% confidence interval caused theaverage VaR to drop by $85&nbsp;million in the thirdquarter when the new measure was implemented. Underthe 95% confidence interval, the Firm would expectto incur daily losses greater than those predictedby VaR estimates about twelve times a year.The following table provides information about thesensitivity of DVA to a one basis point increase inJPMorgan Chase's credit spreads. The sensitivity ofDVA at December&nbsp;31, 2008, represents the Firm(including Bear Stearns), while the sensitivity ofDVA for December&nbsp;31, 2007, represents heritageJPMorgan Chase only.Debit Valuation Adjustment SensitivityLoss advisories and drawdownsLoss advisories and drawdowns are tools used tohighlight to senior management trading lossesabove certain levels and initiate discussion ofremedies.Economic value stress testingWhile VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adversechanges in normal markets, stress testing capturesthe Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausibleevents in abnormal markets. The Firm conductseconomic value stress tests for both its tradingand nontrading activities at least every two weeksusing multiple scenarios that assume credit spreadswiden significantly, equity prices decline andinterest rates rise in the major currencies.Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominantin individual business segments and includescenarios that focus on the potential for adversemoves in complex portfolios. Periodically,scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflectchanges in the Firm's risk profile and economicevents. Along with VaR, stress testing isimportant in measuring and controlling risk. Stresstesting enhances the understanding of the Firm'srisk profile and loss potential, and stress lossesare monitored against limits. Stress testing isalso utilized in one-off approvals andcross-business risk measurement, as well as aninput to economic capital allocation. Stress-testresults, trends and explanations are provided atleast every two weeks to the Firm's seniormanagement and to the lines of business to helpthem better measure and manage risks andunderstand event risk-sensitive positions.Earnings-at-risk stress testingThe VaR and stress-test measures described aboveillustrate the total economic sensitivity of theFirm's balance sheet to changes in marketvariables. The effect of interest rate exposure onreported net income is also important. Interestrate risk exposure in the Firm's core non-tradingbusiness activities (i.e., asset/liabilitymanagement positions) results from on- andoff-balance sheet positions and can occur due to avariety of factors, including:The Firm manages interest rate exposure related toits assets and liabilities on a consolidated,corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer theirinterest rate risk to Treasury through atransfer-pricing system, which takes into accountthe elements of interest rate exposure that can berisk-managed in financial markets. These elementsinclude asset and liability balances andcontractual rates of interest, contractualprincipal payment schedules, expected prepaymentexperience, interest rate reset dates andmaturities, rate indices used for re-pricing, andany interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustablerate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions aredynamically reviewed.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in netinterest income from its nontrading activitiesunder avariety of interest rate scenarios.Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential changein the Firm's net interest income, and thecorresponding impact to the Firm's pre-&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysistax earnings, over the following 12&nbsp;months.These tests highlight exposures to variousrate-sensitive factors, such as the ratesthemselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricingstrategies on deposits, optionality and changes inproduct mix. The tests include forecasted balancesheet changes, such as asset sales andsecuritizations, as well as prepayment andreinvestment behavior.Immediate changes in interest rates present alimited view of risk, and so a number ofalternative scenarios are also reviewed. Thesescenarios include the implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rateshocks on selected key rates. These scenarios areintended to provide a comprehensive view ofJPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide rangeof outcomes.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pretax earningssensitivity profile as of December&nbsp;31, 2008 and2007, is as follows.The change in earnings-at-risk from December31, 2007, results from a higher level of AFSsecurities and lower market interest rates. The benefit to the Firm of an increase in rates results from a widening of deposit margins which are currently compressed due to very low short term interest rates. This benefit would be partially offset by the effect of reduced mortgage prepayments. The impact to theFirm's pretax earnings of reduced mortgage prepayments would become more pronounced under a +200 bp parallel shock.Additionally, another sensitivity involving asteeper yield curve, with long-term rates rising100 basis points and short-term rates staying atcurrent levels, results in a 12-month pretaxearnings benefit of $740&nbsp;million. The increase inearnings is due to reinvestment of maturing assetsat the higher long-term rates with funding costsremaining unchanged.Risk identification for large exposures (&#147;RIFLE&#148;)Individuals who manage risk positions,particularly those that are complex, areresponsible for identifying potential losses thatcould arise from specific, unusual events, such asa potential tax change, and estimating theprobabilities of losses arising from such events.This information is entered into the Firm's RIFLEdatabase. Management of trading businesses controlRIFLE entries, thereby permitting the Firm tomonitor further earnings vulnerability notadequately covered by standard risk measures.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through aseries of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's riskappetite in the context of the market environmentand business strategy. In setting limits, the Firmtakes into consideration factors such as marketvolatility, product liquidity, business trends andmanagement experience.Market risk management regularly reviews andupdates risk limits. Senior management, includingthe Firm's Chief Executive Officer and Chief RiskOfficer, is responsible for reviewing and approvingrisk limits at least once a year.The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits include VaR and stresslimits. Similarly, line-of-business limits includeVaR and stress limits and may be supplemented byloss advisories, nonstatistical measurements andinstrument authorities. Businesses are responsiblefor adhering to established limits, against whichexposures are monitored and reported. Limitbreaches are reported in a timely manner to seniormanagement, and the affected business segment isrequired to reduce trading positions or consultwith senior management on the appropriate action.Qualitative reviewThe Market Risk Management group also performsperiodic reviews as necessary of both businessesand products with exposure to market risk to assessthe ability of the businesses to control theirmarket risk. Strategies, market conditions, productdetails and risk controls are reviewed, andspecific recommendations for improvements are madeto management.Model reviewSome of the Firm's financial instruments cannot bevalued based upon quoted market prices but areinstead valued using pricing models. Such modelsare used for management of risk positions, such asreporting against limits, as well as for valuation.The Model Risk Group, independent of the businessesand market risk management, reviews the models theFirm uses and assesses model appropriateness andconsistency. The model reviews consider a number offactors about the model's suitability for valuationand risk management of a particular product,including whether it accurately reflects thecharacteristics of the transaction and itssignificant risks, the suitability and convergenceproperties of numerical algorithms, reliability ofdata sources, consistency of the treatment withmodels for similar products, and sensitivity toinput parameters and assumptions that cannot bepriced from the market.Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, aswell as previously accepted models, to assesswhether there have been any changes in the productor market that may impact the model's validity andwhether there are theoretical or competitivedevelopments that may require reassessment of themodel's adequacy. For a summary of valuations basedupon models, see Critical Accounting Estimates usedby the Firm on pages 107&#150;111 of this AnnualReport.Risk reportingNonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, lossadvisories and limit excesses are reported dailyfor each trading and nontrading business. Marketrisk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profitand loss changes, and portfolio concentrations arereported weekly. Stress-test results are reportedat least every two weeks to business and seniormanagement.&nbsp; Table of ContentsPRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk managementThe Firm makes direct principal investments inprivate equity. The illiquid nature and long-termholding period associated with these investmentsdifferentiates private equity risk from the risk ofpositions held in the trading portfolios. TheFirm's approach to managing private equity risk isconsistent with the Firm's general risk governancestructure. Controls are in place establishingexpected levels for total and annual investment inorder to control the overall size of the portfolio.Industry and geographic concentration limits are inplace and intended to ensure diversification of theportfolio. All invest-ments are approved by aninvestment committee that includes executives whoare not part of the investing businesses. Anindependent valuation function is responsible forreviewing the appropriateness of the carryingvalues of private equity investments in accordancewith relevant accounting policies. At December&nbsp;31,2008 and 2007, the carrying value of the privateequity businesses was $6.9&nbsp;billion and$7.2&nbsp;billion, respectively, of which $483&nbsp;millionand $390&nbsp;million, respectively, representedpublicly traded positions. For furtherinformation on the Private equity portfolio, seepage 63 of this Annual Report.OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resultingfrom inadequate or failed processesor systems, human factors or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm'sbusinesses and support activities. Operational riskcan manifest itself in various ways, includingerrors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees, or vendorsthat do not perform in accordance with theirarrangements. These events could result infinancial losses and other damage to the Firm,including reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firmmaintains a system of comprehensive policies and acontrol framework designed to provide a sound andwell-controlled operational environment. The goalis to keep operational risk at appropriate levels,in light of the Firm's financial strength, thecharacteristics of its businesses, the markets inwhich it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk managementis intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing traditional control-based approachesto operational risk with risk measures, tools anddisciplines that are risk-specific, consistentlyapplied and utilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of keyissues and accountability for issue resolution.The Firm's operational risk framework is supportedby Phoenix, an internally designed operational risksoftware tool. Phoenix integrates the individualcomponents of the operational risk managementframework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenixenhances the capture, reporting and analysis ofoperational risk data by enabling riskidentification, measurement, monitoring, reportingand analysis to be done in an integrated manner,thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm'smonitoring and management of its operational risk.For purposes of identification, monitoring,reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizesoperational risk events as follows:Risk identification and measurementRisk identification is the recognition of theoperational risk events that management believesmay give rise to operational losses. All businessesutilize the Firm's standard self-assessment processand supporting architecture as a dynamic riskmanagement tool. The goal of the self-assessmentprocess is for each business to identify the keyoperational risks specific to its environment andassess the degree to which it maintains appropriatecontrols. Action plans are developed for controlissues identified, and businesses are heldaccountable for tracking and resolving these issueson a timely basis.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operationalrisk-event data, permitting analysis of errors andlosses as well as trends. Such analysis, performedboth at a line-of-business level and by risk-eventtype, enables identification of the causesassociated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data canbe supplemented with external data for comparativeanalysis with industry patterns. The data reportedenables the Firm to back-test againstself-assessment results. The Firm is a foundingmember ofthe Operational Riskdata eXchange Association, anot-for-profit industry association formed for thepurpose of collecting operational loss data,sharing data in an anonymous form and benchmarkingresults back to members. Such informationsupplements the Firm's ongoing operational riskmeasurement and analysis.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisRisk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timelyand accurate information, including informationabout actual operational loss levels andself-assessment results, to the lines of businessand senior management. The purpose of these reportsis to enable management to maintain operationalrisk at appropriate levels within each line ofbusiness, to escalate issues and to provideconsistent data aggregation across the Firm'sbusinesses and support areas.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program ofaudit coverage to provide an independent assessmentof the design and effectiveness of key controlsover the Firm's operations, regulatory complianceand reporting. This includes reviewing theoperational risk framework, the effectiveness andaccuracy of the business self-assessment processand the loss data collection and reportingactivities.REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;A firm's success depends not only on itsprudent management of the liquidity, credit, marketand operational risks that are part of its businessrisks, but equally on the maintenance among manyconstituents &#151; clients, investors, regulators, aswell as the general public &#151; of a reputation forbusiness practices of the highest quality.Attention to reputation always has been a keyaspect of the Firm's practices, and maintenance ofthe Firm's reputation is the responsibility ofeveryone at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters thisindividual responsibility in many ways, includingthrough the Firm's Code of Conduct, training,maintaining adherence to policies and procedures,and oversight functions that approve transactions.These oversight functions include a ConflictsOffice, which examines wholesale transactions withthe potential to create conflicts of interest forthe Firm, and regional reputation risk reviewcommittees, which review certain transactions withclients, especially complex derivatives andstructured finance transactions, that have thepotential to affect adversely the Firm'sreputation. These regional committees, whosemembers are senior representatives of businessesand control functions in the region, focus on thepurpose and effect of the transactions from theclient's point of view, with the goal that thesetransactions are not used to mislead investors orothers.Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line ofbusiness include in their mandate the oversight ofthe legal, reputational and, where appropriate,fiduciary risks in their businesses that mayproduce significant losses or reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk Management function works withthe relevant line-of-business risk committees withthe goal of ensuring that businesses providinginvestment or risk management products or servicesthat give rise to fiduciary duties to clientsperform at the appropriate standard relative totheir fiduciary relationship with a client. Ofparticular focus are the policies and practicesthat address a business' responsibilities to aclient, including client suitability determination;disclosure obligations and communications; andperformance expectations with respect to riskmanagement products or services being provided. Inthis way, the relevant line-of-business riskcommittees, together with the Fiduciary RiskManagement function, provide oversight of theFirm's efforts to monitor, measure and control therisks that may arise in the delivery of theproducts or services to clients that give rise tosuch fiduciary duties, as well as those stemmingfrom any of the Firm's fiduciary responsibilitiesto employees under the Firm's various employeebenefit plans.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use ofestimates are integral to understanding itsreported results. The Firm's most complexaccounting estimates require management's judgmentto ascertain the value of assets andliabilities. The Firm has established detailedpolicies and control procedures intended to ensurethat valuation methods, including any judgmentsmade as part of such methods, are well-controlled,independently reviewed and applied consistentlyfrom period to period. In addition, the policiesand procedures are intended to ensure that theprocess for changing methodologies occurs in anappropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimatesfor determining the value of its assets andliabilities are appropriate. The following is abrief description of the Firm's critical accountingestimates involving significant valuationjudgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses coversthe wholesale and consumer loan portfolios, as wellas the Firm's portfolio of lending-relatedcommitments. The allowance for credit losses isintended to adjust the value of the Firm's loanassets for probable credit losses as of the balancesheet date. For further discussion of themethodologies used in establishing the Firm'sallowance for credit losses, see Note 15 on pages166&#150;168 of this Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the allowancefor loan losses and the allowance forlending-related commitments involves significantjudgment. First and foremost, it involves theearly identification of credits that aredeteriorating. Second, it involves judgment inestablishing the inputs used to estimate theallowances. Third, it involves management judgmentto evaluate certain macroeconomic factors,underwriting standards, and other relevantinternal and external factors affecting the creditquality of the current portfolio and to refineloss factors to better reflect these conditions.The Firm uses a risk-rating system to determine thecredit quality of its wholesale loans. Wholesaleloans are reviewed for information affecting theobligor's ability to fulfill its obligations. Inassessing the risk rating of a particular loan,among the factors considered are the obligor's debtcapacity and financial flexibility, the level ofthe obligor's earnings, the amount and sources forrepayment, the level and nature of contingencies,management strength and the industry and geographyin which the obligor operates. These factors arebased upon an evaluation of historical and currentinformation, and involve subjective assessment andinterpretation. Emphasizing one factor over anotheror considering additional factors could impact therisk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.The Firm applies its judgment to establish lossfactors used in calculating the allowances.Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent,verifiable data or the Firm's own historical lossexperience in its models for estimating theallowances. Many factors can affect estimates ofloss, including volatility of loss given default,probability of default and rating migrations.Consideration is given as to whether the lossestimates should be calculated as an average overthe entire creditcycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle,as well as to which external data should be usedand when they should be used. Choosing data thatare not reflective of the Firm's specific loanportfolio characteristics could also affect lossestimates. The application of different inputswould change the amount of the allowance for creditlosses determined appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust theloss factors derived, taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economicevents that have occurred but are not yet reflectedin the loss factors by establishing ranges usinghistorical experience of both loss given defaultand probability of default. Factors related toconcentrated and deteriorating industries also areincorporated where relevant. These estimates arebased upon management's view of uncertainties thatrelate to current macroeconomic and politicalconditions, quality of underwriting standards andother relevant internal and external factorsaffecting the credit quality of the currentportfolio.As noted on page 84 of this Annual Report, theFirm's wholesale allowance is sensitive to the riskrating assigned to a loan. Assuming a one-notchdowngrade in the Firm's internal risk ratings forits entire wholesaleportfolio, the allowance for loan losses for thewholesale portfolio would increase by approximately$1.8&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2008. Thissensitivity analysis is hypothetical. In the Firm'sview, the likelihood of a one-notch downgrade forall wholesale loans within a short timeframe isremote. The purpose of this analysis is to providean indication of the impact of risk ratings on theestimate of the allowance for loan losses forwholesale loans. It is not intended to implymanagement's expectation of future deterioration inrisk ratings. Given the process the Firm follows indetermining the risk ratings of its loans,management believes the risk ratings currentlyassigned to wholesale loans are appropriate.Consumer loans and lending-related commitmentsThe allowancefor credit losses for the consumer portfolio is sensitive to changes in theeconomic environment, delinquency status, creditbureau scores, the realizable value of collateral,borrower behavior and other risk factors, and isintended to represent management's best estimate ofincurred losses as of the balance sheet date. The credit performance of the consumer portfolioacross the entire consumer credit product spectrumcontinues to be negatively affected by the economicenvironment, as the weak labor market and weakoverall economic conditions have resulted inincreased delinquencies, while continued weakhousing prices have driven a significant increasein loss severity. Significant judgment is required to estimate theduration and severity of the current economicdownturn, as well as its potential impact onhousing prices and the labor market. While theallowance for credit losses is highly sensitive toboth home prices and unemployment rates, in thecurrent market it is difficult to estimatehow potential changes in one or both of thesefactors might impact the allowance for creditlosses. For example, while both factors areimportant determinants of overall allowance levels,changes in one factor or the other may not occur atthe same rate, or changes may be directionallyinconsistent such that improvement in one factor&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysismay offset deterioration in the other. Inaddition, changes in these factors would notnecessarily be consistent across geographies orproduct types. Finally, it is difficult to predictthe extent to which changes in both or either ofthese factors will ultimately impact the frequencyof losses, the severity of losses, or both, andoverall loss rates are a function of both thefrequency and severity of individual loan losses.The allowance is calculated by applying statisticalloss factors and other risk indicators to pools ofloans with similar risk characteristics to arriveat an estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio.Management applies judgment to the statistical lossestimates for each loan portfolio category usingdelinquency trends and other risk characteristicsto estimate charge-offs. Management utilizesadditional statistical methods and considersportfolio and collateral valuation trends to reviewthe appropriateness of the primary statistical lossestimate.The statistical calculation is adjusted to takeinto consideration model imprecision, externalfactors and current economic events that haveoccurred but are not yet reflected in the factorsused to derive the statistical calculation, and isaccomplished in part by analyzing the historicalloss experience for each major product segment. Inthe current economic environment, it is difficultto predict whether historical loss experience isindicative of future loss levels. Managementapplies judgment within estimated ranges indetermining this adjustment, taking into accountthe numerous uncertainties inherent in the currenteconomic environment. The estimated ranges and thedetermination of the appropriate point within therange are based upon management's judgment relatedto uncertainties associated with currentmacroeconomic and political conditions, quality ofunderwritingstandards, and other relevant internal and externalfactors affecting the credit quality of theportfolio.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs andcommodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of it assets andliabilities at fair value. The majority of suchassets and liabilities are carried at fair valueon a recurring basis. In addition, certain assetsare carried at fair value on a nonrecurringbasis, including loans accounted for at the lowerof cost or fair value that are only subject tofair value adjustments under certaincircumstances.On January&nbsp;1, 2007, the Firm adopted SFAS 157,which established a three-level valuation hierarchyfor disclosure of fair value measurements. Aninstrument's categorization within the hierarchy isbased upon the lowest level of input that issignificant to the fair value measurement.Therefore, for instruments classified in levels 1and 2 of the hierarchy, where inputs areprincipally based on observable market data, thereis less judgment applied in arriving at a fairvalue measurement. For instruments classifiedwithin level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments are moresignificant. The Firm reviews and updates the fairvalue hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis.Changes from one quarter to the next related to theobservability of inputs to a fair value measurementmay result in a reclassification between hierarchylevels.&nbsp; Table of ContentsAssets carried at fair valueThe table that follows includes the Firm's assets carried at fair value and the portion of suchassets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.&nbsp;ValuationFor instruments classified within level 3 of thehierarchy, judgments may be significant. Inarriving at an estimate of fair value for aninstrument within level 3, management must firstdetermine the appropriate model to use. Second, dueto the lack of observability ofsignificant inputs, management must assess allrelevant empirical data in deriving valuationinputs including but not limited to yield curves,interest rates, volatilities, equity or debtprices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.In addition to market information, models alsoincorporate transaction details, such as maturity.Finally,management judgment must be applied to assess theappropriate level of valuation adjustments toreflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm'screditworthiness, constraints on liquidity andunobservable parameters, where relevant. Thejudgments made are typically affected by the typeof product and its specific contractual terms andthe level of liquidity for the product or withinthe market as a whole.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisImprecision in estimating unobservable marketinputs can impact the amount of revenue or lossrecorded for a particular position. Furthermore,while the Firm believes its valuation methods areappropriate and consistent with those of othermarket participants, the use of differentmethodologies or assumptions to determine the fairvalue of certain financial instruments could resultin a different estimate of fair value at thereporting date. For a detailed discussion of thedetermination of fair value for individualfinancial instruments, see Note 4 on pages 129&#150;133of this Annual Report. In addition, for a furtherdiscussion of the significant judgments andestimates involved in the determination of theFirm's mortgage-related exposures, see &#147;Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair value&#148; in Note 4on pages 139&#150;141 of this Annual Report.Purchased credit-impaired loansJPMorgan Chase acquired, in connection with theWashington Mutual transaction, certain loans withevidence of deterioration of credit quality sinceorigination and for which it was probable, atacquisition, that the Firm would be unable tocollect all contractually required paymentsreceivable. These purchased credit-impaired loansare accounted for in accordance with SOP 03-3. Manyof the assumptions and estimates underlying theapplication of SOP 03-3 are both significant andjudgmental, particularly considering the currenteconomic environment. The level of future homeprice declines, the duration and severity of thecurrent economic downturn and the lack of marketliquidity and transparency are factors that haveimpacted and may continue to impact theseassumptions and estimates.Determining which loans are included in the scopeof SOP 03-3 is highly subjective and requires theapplication of significant judgment. In theWashington Mutual transaction, consumer loans withcertain attributes (e.g., higher loan-to-valueratios, borrowers with lower FICO scores,delinquencies) were determined to becredit-impaired, provided that those attributesarose subsequent to loan origination.Wholesale loans were determined to becredit-impaired if they met the definition of animpaired loan under SFAS 114 at the acquisitiondate. Applying SOP 03-3 to the appropriatepopulation of loans is important because loansthat are not within the scope of SOP 03-3 aresubject to different accounting standards.Choosing different attributes in making themanagement assessment of which loans werecredit-impaired and within the scope of SOP 03-3could have resulted in a different (i.e., largeror smaller) population of loans deemedcredit-impaired at the transaction date.Loans determined to be within the scope of SOP03-3 are initially recorded at fair value. TheFirm has estimated the fair value of these loansby discounting the cash flows expected to becollected at a market observable discount rate, when available,adjusted for factors that a market participantwould consider in determining fair value. Theinitial estimate of cash flows expected to becollected entails significant management judgment,as such cash flows were derived from assumptionssuch as default rates, loss severities and theamount and timing of prepayments. Particularly inthe current economic environment, estimating theinitial fair value of these loans was highlysubjective. The application of differentassumptions by management would have resulted indifferent initial fair values.The Firm has elected to aggregate the purchasedcredit-impaired consumer loans into pools of loanswith common risk characteristics. Significantjudgment is required in evaluating whetherindividual loans have common risk characteristicsfor purposes of establishing these pools. Eachresulting pool is considered one loan with acomposite interest rate and estimation of cashflows expected to be collected for purposes ofapplying SOP 03-3 subsequent to acquisition. Theprocess of estimating cash flows expected to becollected subsequent to acquisition is bothsubjective and judgmental and may have an impact onthe recognition and measurement of impairmentlosses and/or interest income. In addition, thedecision to pool these loans and the manner inwhich they were pooled may have an impact on therecognition, measurement and/or classification ofinterest income and/or impairment losses.Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated toreporting units and tested for impairment. SFAS 142defines reporting units of an entity as either SFAS131 operating segments (i.e., one level below theSFAS 131 reportable segments as disclosed in Note37 of this Annual Report) or one level below theSFAS 131 operating segments. JPMorgan Chasegenerally determined its reporting units to be onelevel below the six major business segmentsidentified in Note 37 on pages 214&#150;215 of thisAnnual Report, plus Private Equity which isincluded in Corporate. This determination was basedon how the Firm's operating segments are managedand how they are reviewed by the Firm's OperatingCommittee.The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at leastannuallyor more frequently if events or circumstances, suchas adverse changes in the business climate,indicate that there may be justification forconducting an interim test. The first part of thetest is a comparison, at the reporting unit level,of the fair value of each reporting unit to itscarrying amount, including goodwill. If the fairvalue is less than the carrying value, then thesecond part of the test is needed to measure theamount of potential goodwill impairment. Theimplied fair value of the reporting unit goodwillis calculated and compared with the carrying amountof goodwill recorded in the Firm's financialrecords. If the carrying value of the reportingunit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value ofthat goodwill, then the Firm would recognize animpairment loss in the amount of the difference,which would be recorded as a charge against netincome.If the fair value of the reporting unit in thefirst part of the test is determined to be greaterthan the carrying amount of the reporting unitincluding goodwill, then and in accordance withSFAS 142 goodwill is deemed not to be impaired.During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Firmperformed its annual goodwill impairment testingand concluded that the fair value of each of itsreporting units was in excess of their respectivecarrying values including goodwill. Accordingly,the Firm concluded that its goodwill was notimpaired at December&nbsp;31, 2008.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe Firm considers discounted cash flow modelsto be its primary method of determining the fairvalue of its reporting units. The models projectlevered cash flows for five years and use theperpetuity growth method to calculate terminalvalues. The first year's projected cash flows arebased on the reporting units' internal budgetforecasts for the upcoming calendar year (which arereviewed with the Operating Committee of the Firm).To assess the reasonableness of the valuationsderived from the discounted cash flow models, theFirm also analyzes market-based trading andtransaction multiples, where available. Thesetrading and transaction comparables are used toassess the reasonableness of the estimated fairvalues, as observable market information isgenerally not available.JPMorgan Chase's stock price, consistent with stockprices in the broader financial services sector,declined significantly during the last half of2008. JPMorgan Chase's market capitalization fellbelow its recorded book value, principally duringthe fourth quarter of 2008. Although the Firmbelieves it is reasonable to conclude that marketcapitalization could be an indicator of fair valueover time, the Firm is of the view that short-termfluctuations in market capitalization do notreflect the long-term fair value of its reportingunits.Management applies significant judgment whendetermining the fair value of its reporting units.Imprecision in estimating the future cash flows ofthe Firm's reporting units as well as theappropriate cost of equity used to discount thosecash flows can impact their estimated fair values.If JPMorgan Chase's common stock were to trade at the level itwas at the end of 2008 over a sustained period and weak economic market conditionspersist, these factors could indicate that thelong-term earningspotential of the Firm's reporting units could beadversely affected &#150; which could result insupplemental impairment testing during interimreporting periods and possible impairment ofgoodwill in the future.Income taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws ofthe various jurisdictions in which it operates,including U.S. federal, state and non-U.S.jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and maybe subject to different interpretations. Todetermine the financial statement impact of itsaccounting for income taxes, including theprovision for income tax expense and itsunrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must makeassumptions and judgments about how to interpretand apply these complex tax laws to numeroustransactions and business events. Disputes overinterpretations with the various taxing authoritiesmay be settled upon audit or administrativeappeals. In some cases, the Firm's interpretationsof tax laws may be subject to adjudication by thecourt systems of the tax jurisdictions in which itoperates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whetherthe Firm may be assessed additional income taxes asa result of the resolution of these matters, andthe Firm records additional reserves asappropriate.The Firm does not anticipate that current marketevents will adversely impact the realizability ofits deferred tax assets.The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefitsas necessary when additional information becomesavailable. The reassessment of JPMorgan Chase'sunrecognized tax benefits may have a materialimpact on its effective tax rate in the periodin which it occurs.ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS&nbsp;Derivatives netting &#150; amendment of FASBInterpretation No.&nbsp;39In April&nbsp;2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1, whichpermits offsetting of cash collateral receivablesor payables with net derivative positions undercertain circumstances. The Firm adopted FSP FIN39-1 effective January&nbsp;1, 2008. The FSP did nothave a material impact on the Firm's ConsolidatedBalance Sheets.Accounting for income tax benefits of dividends onshare-based payment awardsIn June&nbsp;2007, the FASB ratified EITF 06-11, whichmust be applied prospectively for dividendsdeclared in fiscal years beginning after December15, 2007. EITF 06-11 requires that realized taxbenefits from dividends or dividend equivalentspaid on equity-classified share-based paymentawards that are charged to retained earnings berecorded as an increase to additional paid-incapital and included in the pool of excess taxbenefitsavailable to absorb tax deficiencies on share-basedpayment awards. Prior to the issuance of EITF06-11, the Firm did not include these tax benefitsas part of this pool of excess tax benefits. TheFirm adopted EITF 06-11 on January&nbsp;1, 2008. Theadoption of this consensus did not have an impacton the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets orresults of operations.Fair value measurements &#150; written loan commitmentsIn November&nbsp;2007, the SEC issued SAB 109, whichrevises and rescinds portions of SAB 105.Specifically, SAB 109 states that the expected netfuture cash flows related to the associatedservicing of the loan should be included in themeasurement of all written loan commitments thatare accounted for at fair value through earnings.The provisions of SAB 109 are applicable towritten loan commitments issued or modifiedbeginning on January&nbsp;1, 2008. The Firm adopted SAB109 on January&nbsp;1, 2008. The adoption of thispronouncement did not have a material impact onthe Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or resultsof operations.Business combinations/noncontrolling interests inconsolidated financial statementsIn December&nbsp;2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R andSFAS 160, which amend the accounting and reportingof business combinations, as well as noncontrolling(i.e., minority) interests. For JPMorgan Chase,SFAS 141R is effective for business combinationsthat close on or after January&nbsp;1, 2009. SFAS 160 iseffective for JPMorgan Chase for fiscal yearsbeginning on or after December&nbsp;15, 2008.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisSFAS 141R will generally only impact theaccounting for future business combinations andwill impact certain aspects of business combinationaccounting, such as transaction costs and certainmerger-related restructuring reserves, as well asthe accounting for partial acquisitions wherecontrol is obtained by JPMorgan Chase. Oneexception to the prospective application of SFAS141R relates to accounting for income taxesassociated with business combinations that closedprior to January&nbsp;1, 2009. Once the purchaseaccounting measurement period closes for theseacquisitions, any further adjustments to incometaxes recorded as part of these businesscombinations will impact income tax expense.Previously, further adjustments were predominatelyrecorded as adjustments to Goodwill. JPMorgan Chasewill continue to evaluate the impact that SFAS 141Rwill have on its consolidated financial statements.SFAS 160 requires that noncontrolling interests beaccounted for and presented as equity, rather thanas a liability or mezzanine equity. Changes to howthe income statement is presented will also result.SFAS 160 presentation and disclosure requirementsare to beapplied retrospectively. The adoption of thispronouncement is not expected to have a materialimpact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets,results of operations or ratios.Accounting for transfers of financial assets andrepurchase financing transactionsIn February&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3,which requires an initial transfer of a financialasset and a repurchase financing that was enteredinto contempora-neously with, or in contemplationof, the initial transfer to be evaluated togetheras a linked transaction under SFAS 140, unlesscertain criteria are met. The Firm adopted FSP FAS140-3 on January&nbsp;1, 2009, for new transactionsentered into after the date of adoption. Theadoption of FSP FAS 140-3 is not expected to have amaterial impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheetsor results of operations.Disclosures about derivative instruments andhedging activities &#150; FASB Statement No.&nbsp;161In March&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued SFAS 161, whichamends the disclosure requirements of SFAS 133.SFAS 161 requires increased disclosures aboutderivative instruments and hedging activities andtheir effects on an entity's financial position,financial performance and cash flows. SFAS 161 iseffective for fiscal years beginning after November15, 2008, with early adoption permitted. SFAS 161will only affect JPMorgan Chase's disclosures ofderivative instruments and related hedgingactivities, and not its Consolidated BalanceSheets, Consolidated Statements of Income orConsolidated Statements of Cash Flows.Determining whether instruments granted inshare-based payment transactions areparticipating securitiesIn June&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,which addresses whether instruments granted inshare-based payment transactions are participatingsecurities prior to vesting and, therefore, need tobe included in the earnings allocation in computingearnings per share under the two-class method. FSPEITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statementsissued for fiscal years beginning after December15, 2008, and interim periods within those years.Adoption of FSP EITF03-6-1 does not affect net income or results ofoperations but may result in a reduction of basicand/or diluted earnings per share in certainperiods.Disclosures about credit derivatives and certain guaranteesIn September&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 133-1and FIN 45-4. The FSP requires enhanced disclosuresabout credit derivatives and guarantees to addressthe potential adverse effects of changes in creditrisk on the financial position, financialperformance and cash flows of the sellers of theseinstruments. The FSP is effective for reportingperiods ending after November&nbsp;15, 2008, withearlier application permitted. The disclosures required by this FSP are incorporated in this Annual Report. FSP FAS 133-1 andFIN 45-4 only affects JPMorgan Chase'sdisclosures of credit derivatives and guaranteesand not its ConsolidatedBalance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Incomeor ConsolidatedStatements of Cash Flows.Determining whether an instrument (or embeddedfeature) is indexed to an entity's own stockIn September&nbsp;2008, the EITF issued EITF 07-5, whichestablishes a two-step process for evaluatingwhether equity-linked financial instruments andembedded features are indexed to a company's ownstock for purposes of determining whether thederivative scope exception in SFAS 133 should beapplied. EITF 07-5 is effective for fiscal yearsbeginning after December&nbsp;2008. The adoption of thisEITF is not expected to have a material impact onthe Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or resultsof operations.Accounting for transfers of financial assets andconsolidation of variable interest entitiesThe FASB has been deliberating certain amendmentsto both SFAS 140 and FIN 46R that may impact theaccounting for transactions that involve QSPEs andVIEs. Among other things, the FASB is proposing toeliminate the concept of QSPEs from both SFAS 140and FIN 46R and make key changes to theconsolidation model of FIN 46R that will change themethod of determining which party to a VIE shouldconsolidate the VIE. A final standard isexpected to be issued in the second quarter of2009, with an&nbsp; Table of Contentsexpectedeffective date in January&nbsp;2010. Entities expected to be impactedinclude revolving securitization entities, bank-administeredasset-backed commercial paper conduits, and certain mortgagesecuritization entities. The Firm is monitoring the FASB'sdeliberations on these proposed amendments and continues to evaluatetheir potential impact. The ultimate impact to the Firm will dependupon the guidance issued by the FASB in a final statement amendingSFAS&nbsp;140 and FIN&nbsp;46R.Determining the fair value of an asset when themarket for that asset is not activeIn October&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3,which clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in amarket that is not active and provides an exampleto illustrate key considerations in determining thefair value of a financial instrument when themarket for that financial asset is not active. TheFSP was effective upon issuance, including priorperiods for which financial statements have notbeen issued. The application of this FSP did nothave an impact on the Firm's Consolidated BalanceSheets or results of operations.Disclosure about transfers of financial assets andinterests in VIEsOn December&nbsp;11, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4and FIN 46(R)-8, which requires additionaldisclosures relating to transfers of financialassets and interests insecuritization entities and other variable interestentities. The purpose of this FSP is to requireimproved disclosure by public enterprises prior tothe effective dates of the proposed amendments toSFAS 140 and FIN 46(R). The effective date for theFSP is for reporting periods (interim andannual) beginning with the first reporting periodthat ends after December&nbsp;15, 2008. The disclosuresrequired by this FSP are incorporated in thisAnnual Report. FSP SFAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 only affects JPMorgan Chase's disclosure oftransfers of financial assets and interests insecuritization entities and other variable interestentities and not its Consolidated Balance Sheets,Consolidated Statements of Income or ConsolidatedStatements of Cash Flows.Employers' disclosures about postretirementbenefit plan assetsIn December&nbsp;2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1,which requires more detailed disclosures aboutemployers' plan assets, including investmentstrategies, major categories of plan assets,concentrations of risk within plan assets, andvaluation techniques used to measure the fair valueof plan assets. This FSP is effective for fiscalyears ending after December&nbsp;15, 2009. The Firmintends to adopt these additional disclosurerequirements on the effective date.Amendmentsto the impairment guidance of EITF Issue No.99-20In January&nbsp;2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF 99-20-1,which amends the impairment guidance in EITF 99-20to make the investment security impairment model inEITF 99-20 more consistent with the securitiesimpairment model in SFAS 115. FSP EITF 99-20-1removes the requirement that a holder's bestestimate of cash flows be based exclusively uponthose that a market participant would use andallows for reasonable judgment to be applied inconsidering whether an adverse change in cash flowshas occurred based on all available informationrelevant to the collectibility of the security. FSPEITF 99-20-1 is effective for interim and annual periods ending afterDecember&nbsp;15, 2008, and therefore the Firm has adopted FSP EITF 99-20-1as of December&nbsp;31, 2008. The adoption of thisFSP did not have a material impact on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets or results ofoperations.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisNONEXCHANGE-TRADED COMMODITY DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS AT FAIR VALUE&nbsp;In the normal course of business, JPMorganChase trades nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts. To determine the fair valueof these contracts, the Firm uses various fairvalue estimation techniques, primarily based uponinternal models with significant observable marketparameters. The Firm's nonexchange-tradedcommodity derivative contracts are primarilyenergy-related.The following table summarizes the changes in fairvalue for nonexchange-traded commodity derivativecontracts for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008.The following table indicates the scheduleof maturities of nonexchange-traded commodityderivative contracts at December&nbsp;31, 2008.&nbsp;
