Table of ContentsCondensed statement of net assets acquiredThe following reflects the value assigned to Bear Stearns net assets as of the merger date.Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflecting the Bear Stearns merger and Washington Mutual transactionThe following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents the results ofoperations of the Firm as they may have appeared for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2008,if the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction had been completed on January&nbsp;1,2008.98 Table of ContentsThe unaudited pro forma combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposesonly, and it does not indicate the financial results of the combined company had the companiesactually been combined as of January&nbsp;1, 2008; nor is it indicative of the results of operations infuture periods. Included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information for the threeand six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2008, were pro forma adjustments to reflect the results of operationsof Bear Stearns, and Washington Mutual's banking operations, considering the purchase accounting,valuation and accounting conformity adjustments related to each transaction. For the WashingtonMutual transaction, the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to report interest-earningsassets acquired and interest-bearing liabilities assumed at current interest rates is reflected.Valuation adjustments and the adjustment to conform allowance methodologies in the WashingtonMutual transaction, and valuation and accounting conformity adjustments related to the Bear Stearnsmerger, are reflected in the results for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2008.Purchase of remaining interest in Highbridge Capital ManagementOn July&nbsp;1, 2009, JPMorgan Chase completed its purchase of the remaining interest in HighbridgeCapital Management, LLC.Issuance of common stockOn June&nbsp;2, 2009, the Firm issued $5.8&nbsp;billion, or 163&nbsp;million shares, of common stock. The commonstock was issued to satisfy a regulatory supervisory condition requiring the Firm to demonstrate itcould access the equity capital markets in order to be eligible to redeem the Series&nbsp;K preferredstock held by the U.S. Treasury. The proceeds from this issuance were used for general corporatepurposes.Subsequent eventsThe Firm has performed an evaluation of events that have occurred subsequent to June&nbsp;30, 2009, andthrough August&nbsp;10, 2009 (the date of the filing of this Form 10-Q). There have been no subsequentevents that occurred during such period that would require disclosure in this Form 10-Q or would berequired to be recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of or for the three- andsix-month periods ending June&nbsp;30, 2009.NOTE3 &#151; FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT For a further discussion of JPMorgan Chase's valuation methodologies for assets, liabilities and lending-related commitmentsmeasured at fair value and the SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy, see Note 4 on pages 129&#150;143 ofJPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.During the first half of 2009, there were no material changes made to the Firm's valuationmodels.For a further discussion of the accounting for trading assets and liabilities, and private equityinvestments, see Note 6 on pages 146&#150;148 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.99 Table of ContentsThe following table presents the financial instruments carried at fair value as of June&nbsp;30, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, by major product category and by the SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy.Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis100 Table of Contents101 Table of Contents102 Table of ContentsChanges in level 3 recurring fair value measurementsThe following tables include a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the three and sixmonths ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008 (including changes in fair value), for financial instrumentsclassified by the Firm within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. When a determination is made toclassify a financial instrument within level 3, the determination is based on the significance ofthe unobservable parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, level 3 financialinstruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or level 3 components, observablecomponents (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources);accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part toobservable factors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk manages theobservable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positionsthat are classified within level 1 or 2 of the valuation hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2risk management instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the following tables donot reflect the effect of the Firm's risk management activities related to such level 3instruments.103 Table of Contents104 Table of Contents105 Table of Contents106 Table of ContentsAssets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basisCertain assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at fair value ona nonrecurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basisbut are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when there isevidence of impairment). The following tables present assets and liabilities carried on theConsolidated Balance Sheets as well as off balance sheet instruments by caption and level withinthe SFAS 157 valuation hierarchy (as described above) as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008,for which a nonrecurring change in fair value has been recorded during the reporting period.107 Table of ContentsNonrecurring fair value changesThe following table presents the total change in value of financial instruments for which a fairvalue adjustment has been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and sixmonths ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, related to financial instruments held at June&nbsp;30, 2009 and2008.In theabove table, loans predominantly include: (1) write-downs of delinquent Retail FinancialServices (&#147;RFS&#148;) mortgage and home equity loans where impairment is based on the fair value of theunderlying collateral and (2) the change in fair value for the Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) leveraged lendingand warehouse loans carried on the balance sheet at the lower of cost or fair value. Accountspayable and other liabilities predominantly include the change in fair value for unfundedlending-related commitments within the leveraged lending portfolio.Level 3 analysisConsolidated Balance Sheets changesLevel 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 7% of totalFirm assets at June&nbsp;30, 2009. The following describes significant changes to level 3 assets duringthe quarter.For the three months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009Level 3 assets decreased by $7.0&nbsp;billion in the second quarter of 2009, largely due to $11.5billion decrease in derivative receivables predominantly due to changes in credit spreads. Thisdecrease was partially offset by a $4.0&nbsp;billion increase in mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;)primarily due to market interest rate and other changes impacting the Firm's estimate of futureprepayments, as well as sales in RFS of originated loans for which servicing rights were retained.For the six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009Level 3 assets increased by $7.2&nbsp;billion in the first half of 2009 due to the following:108 Table of ContentsThe increase in level 3 assets described above was partially offset by:Gains and LossesThe Firm risk manages level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positionsclassified within level 1 or 2 of the valuation hierarchy; the effect of these risk managementactivities is not reflected in the level 3 gains and losses included in the tables above.Three months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009Included in the tables for the three months ended June 30, 2009, were gains and losses resulting from:Three months ended June&nbsp;30, 2008Included in the tables for the three months ended June 30, 2008, were gains and losses resulting from:Six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009Included in the tables for the first six months of 2009 were gains and losses resulting from:109 Table of ContentsSix months ended June&nbsp;30, 2008Included in the tables for the first six months of 2008 were gains and losses resulting from:For further information on changes in the fair value of the MSRs see Note 17 on pages 154&#151;155 ofthis Form 10-Q.Mortgage-related exposures carried at fair valueThe following table provides a summary of the Firm's mortgage-related exposures, including theimpact of risk management activities. These exposures include all mortgage-related securities andloans carried at fair value regardless of their classification within the fair value hierarchy. Thetable below summarizes the Firm's mortgage-related exposures that are carried at fair value throughearnings or at the lower of cost or fair value; the table excludes mortgage-related securities heldin the available-for-sale portfolio, which are reported on page 111 of this Form 10-Q.110 Table of ContentsResidential mortgagesPrime mortgage &#151; Of the $4.3&nbsp;billion of prime mortgage exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009, approximately$2.1&nbsp;billion relates to first-lien mortgages predominantly classified in level 3. The remaining$2.2&nbsp;billion relates to securities (including $569&nbsp;million of forward purchase commitments) where$583&nbsp;million was classified in level 2, and $1.1&nbsp;billion was classified in level 3; and $569million was classified in derivative receivables in level 3. Prime mortgage securities are largelyrated BBB and below.Alt-A mortgage &#151; Of the $3.4&nbsp;billion of Alt-A mortgage exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009, approximately$2.5&nbsp;billion relates to first-lien mortgages classified in level 3. The remaining $922&nbsp;millionrelates to securities, which are predominantly rated BB&#043; and below where $110&nbsp;million wasclassified in level 2, and $812&nbsp;million was classified in level 3.Subprime mortgage &#151; Of the $726&nbsp;million of subprime mortgage exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009, $501million relates to securities, predominantly rated BB&#043; and below, where $43&nbsp;million was classifiedin level 2, and $458&nbsp;million was classified in level 3. The remaining $225&nbsp;million relates tofirst-lien mortgages classified in level 3.Non-U.S. residential mortgageOf the $1.5&nbsp;billion of non-U.S. residential mortgage exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009, $765&nbsp;millionrelates to first-lien mortgages classified in level 3. The remaining $759&nbsp;million relates tosecurities where $291&nbsp;million was classified in level 2, and $468&nbsp;million was classified in level3. Securities are predominantly rated &#147;AAA.&#148;Commercial mortgagesOf the $5.7&nbsp;billion of commercial mortgage exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009, $3.5&nbsp;billion relates tofirst-lien mortgages, predominantly in the U.S., classified in level 3. The remaining $2.2&nbsp;billionrelates to securities, which are partially rated &#147;AAA,&#148; where $263&nbsp;million was classified in level2, and $1.9&nbsp;billion was classified in level 3.The following table presents mortgage-related activities within the available-for-sale securitiesportfolio.Exposures in the table above include $230.9&nbsp;billion and $140.1&nbsp;billion of mortgage-backed andmortgage-related securities classified as available-for-sale on the Firm's Consolidated BalanceSheets at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. These investments are used as part of the Firm'scentralized risk management of structural interest rate risk (i.e., the sensitivity of the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets to changes in interest rates). Changes in the Firm's structuralinterest rate position, as well as changes in the overall interest rate environment, arecontinually monitored, resulting in periodic repositioning of securities classified asavailable-for-sale. Given that this portfolio is primarily used to manage the Firm's structuralinterest rate risk, predominantly all of these securities are either backed by U.S. governmentagencies, backed by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises or largely rated &#147;AAA.&#148;For additional information on investment securities in the available-for-sale portfolio, see Note11 on pages 129-134 of this Form 10-Q.111 Table of ContentsCredit adjustmentsWhen determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be necessary to record a valuationadjustment to arrive at an exit price in accordance with SFAS 157. Valuation adjustments include,but are not limited to, amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the Firm's owncreditworthiness. The market's view of the Firm's credit quality is reflected in credit spreadsobserved in the credit default swap market. For a detailed discussion of the valuation adjustmentsthe Firm considers, see Note 4 on pages 129-143 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table provides the credit adjustments,excluding the effect of any hedging activity, as reflected within the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the Firm as of the dates indicated.The following table provides the impact of credit adjustments,excluding the effect of any hedging activity, on earnings in the respective periods.Financial disclosures required by SFAS 107Many, but not all, of the financial instruments heldby the Firm are recorded at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. SFAS 107 requiresdisclosure of the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments and the methods andsignificant assumptions used to estimate their fair value. Financial instruments within the scopeof SFAS 107 are included in the following table. Additionally, certain financial instruments andall nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair valuedisclosures required by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorganChase. For example, the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its customers through itsdeposit base and credit card accounts, commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and creditcard relationships. In the opinion of management, these items, in the aggregate, add significantvalue to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates fair valueCertain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheetsare carried at amounts that approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and generallynegligible credit risk. These instruments include cash and due from banks; deposits with banks,federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements; and securities borrowed withshort-dated maturities; short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable; commercial paper;federal funds purchased, and securities loaned or sold, under repurchase agreements withshort-dated maturities; other borrowed funds (excluding advances from Federal Home Loan Banks);accounts payable; and accrued liabilities. In addition, SFAS 107 requires that the fair value fordeposit liabilities with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain money marketdeposits) be equal to their carrying value. SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of theinherent funding value of these instruments.112 Table of ContentsThe following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets andliabilities as required by SFAS 107.Themajority of the Firm's unfunded lending-related commitments arenot carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the ConsolidatedBalance Sheets nor are they actively traded.The estimated fair values of the Firm's wholesale lending-related commitments at June&nbsp;30, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, were liabilities of $3.3&nbsp;billion and $7.5&nbsp;billion, respectively.The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumerlending-relatedcommitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel thesecommitments by providing the borrower prior notice, or, in somecases, without notice as permitted by law.113 Table of ContentsTrading assets and liabilities average balancesAverage trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated.NOTE 4 &#151; FAIR VALUE OPTION For a discussion of the primary financial instruments for which fair value elections have beenmade, including the determination of instrument-specific credit risk for these items, and the basisfor those elections, see Note 5 on pages 144&#151;146 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Changes in fair value under the fair value option electionThe following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements ofIncome for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, for items for which the fairvalue election was made. The profit and loss information presented below only includes thefinancial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk managementinstruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.114 Table of Contents115 Table of ContentsDifference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balanceoutstandingThe following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregateremaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, forloans and long-term debt for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has been elected. The loans wereclassified in trading assets &#150; debt and equity instruments or in loans.NOTE 5 &#151; DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS Derivative instruments enable end-users to transform or mitigate exposure to credit or marketrisks. Counterparties to a derivative contract seek to obtain risks and rewards similar to thosethat could be obtained from purchasing or selling a related cash instrument without having toexchange the full purchase or sales price upfront. JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives forcustomers and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage risks of market exposures. The majority ofthe Firm's derivatives are entered into for market-making purposes.Trading DerivativesThe Firm transacts in a variety of derivatives in its trading portfolios to meet the needs ofcustomers (both dealers and clients) and to generate revenue through this trading activity. TheFirm makes markets in derivatives for its customers (collectively, &#147;client derivatives&#148;) seeking tomitigate or transform interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks. The Firmactively manages the risks from its exposure to these derivatives by entering into other derivativetransactions or by purchasing or selling other financial instruments that partially or fully offsetthe exposure from client derivatives. The Firm also seeks to earn a spread between the clientderivatives and offsetting positions, and from the remaining open risk positions. For moreinformation about trading derivatives, see the trading derivatives gains and losses table on page122 of this Form 10-Q.Risk Management DerivativesThe Firm manages its market exposures using various derivative instruments.Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in earnings that are caused by changes ininterest rates. Fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value asinterest rates change. Similarly, interest income and interest expense increase or decrease as aresult of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current market rates, and as a resultof the repayment and subsequent origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities atcurrent market rates. Gains and116 Table of Contentslosses on the derivative instruments that are related to such assets and liabilities are expectedto substantially offset this variability in earnings. The Firm generally uses interest rate swaps,forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings.Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign exchange risk associated withcertain foreign currency&#150;denominated (i.e., non-U.S.) assets and liabilities and forecastedtransactions denominated in a foreign currency, as well as the Firm's net investments in certainnon-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. As a resultof fluctuations in foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar&#150;equivalent values of the foreigncurrency&#150;denominated assets and liabilities or forecasted revenue or expense increase or decrease.Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are related to the foreign currency&#150;denominatedassets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions, are expected to substantially offset thisvariability.Gold forward contracts are used to manage the price risk of gold inventory in the Firm'scommodities portfolio. Gains or losses on the gold forwards are expected to substantially offsetthe depreciation or appreciation of the gold inventory as a result of gold price changes. Also inthe commodities portfolio, electricity and natural gas futures and forwards contracts are used tomanage the price risk associated with energy-related tolling and load-serving contracts andenergy-related investments.The Firm uses credit derivatives to manage the counterparty credit risk associated with loans andlending-related commitments. Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referencedin the contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a failure to pay an obligationwhen due. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see the discussion in the Creditderivatives section on pages 123&#150;124 of this Form 10-Q.For more information about risk management derivatives, see the risk management derivatives gainsand losses table on page 122 of this Form 10-Q.Notional amount of derivative contractsThe following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding as of June30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.117 Table of ContentsWhile the notional amounts disclosed above indicate the volume of the Firm's derivativeactivity, the notional amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm's view, the possible losses thatcould arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional amount does notchange hands; it is used simply as a reference to calculate payments.Accounting for DerivativesAll free-standing derivatives are required to be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets atfair value. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether or not thecontract has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are notdesignated as hedges are marked to market through earnings. The tabular disclosures on pages119&#150;124 of this Form 10-Q provide additional information on the amount of and reporting forderivative assets, liabilities, gains and losses. For further discussion of derivatives embedded instructured notes, see Notes 4 and 5 on pages 129&#150;143 and 144&#150;146, respectively, of JPMorgan Chase's2008 Annual Report.Derivatives designated as hedgesThe Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed for risk management purposes &#150;typically interest rate, foreign exchange and gold derivatives, as described above. JPMorgan Chasedoes not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the Firm's risk management activities involvingderivatives. For example, the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to purchased credit defaultswaps used to manage the credit risk of loans and commitments, because of the difficulties inqualifying such contracts as hedges. For the same reason, the Firm does not apply hedge accountingto certain interest rate derivatives used for risk management purposes, or to commodity derivativesused to manage the price risk of tolling and load-serving contracts.To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effective at reducing the riskassociated with the exposure being hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as ahedge, the risk management objective and strategy must be documented. Hedge documentation mustidentify the derivative hedging instrument, the asset or liability and type of risk to be hedged,and how the effectiveness of the derivative will be assessed prospectively and retrospectively. Toassess effectiveness, the Firm uses statistical methods such as regression analysis, as well asnonstatistical methods including dollar-value comparisons of the change in the fair value of thederivative to the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The extent to which aderivative has been, and is expected to continue to be, effective at offsetting changes in the fairvalue or cash flows of the hedged item must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. Anyhedge ineffectiveness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivativeinstrument does not exactly offset the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedgedrisk) must be reported in current-period earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is nothighly effective at hedging the designated exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued.There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and netinvestment hedges. JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-rate long-termdebt, available-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) securities and gold inventory. For qualifying fair value hedges,the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the value of the hedged item for the riskbeing hedged, are recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the fairvalue adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedgeditem and is amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment.JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges to hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows fromfloating-rate financial instruments and forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover ofshort-term assets and liabilities, and foreign currency&#150;denominated revenue and expense. Forqualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of thederivative is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) (&#147;OCI&#148;) and recognized in theConsolidated Statements of Income when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. Derivative amountsaffecting earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item &#150; primarilyinterest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue and compensation expense. The ineffectiveportions of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship isterminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) (&#147;AOCI&#148;) is recognized in earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. Forhedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted transaction is not expected to occuraccording to the original hedge forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI areimmediately recognized in earnings.JPMorgan Chase uses foreign currency hedges to protect the value of the Firm's net investments incertain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. Forqualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in thetranslation adjustments account within AOCI.118 Table of ContentsImpact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance SheetsThe following table summarizes information on derivative fair values that are reflected on theFirm's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, by accounting designation (e.g., whetherthe derivatives were designated as hedges or not) and contract type.Free-standing derivatives(a)Derivative receivables and payables mark-to-marketThe following table summarizes the fair values of derivative receivables and payables by contracttype after application of FIN 39 netting as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.119 Table of ContentsImpact of derivatives and hedged items on the income statement and on other comprehensiveincomeThe following table summarizes the total pretax impact of JPMorgan Chase's derivative-relatedactivities on the Firm's Consolidated Statements of Income and Other Comprehensive Income for thethree and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, by accounting designation.The tables that follow reflect more detailed information regarding the derivative-relatedincome statement impact by accounting designation for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009.Fair value hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedgeaccounting relationships, as well as pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives and therelated hedged items for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009. The Firm includes gains(losses)&nbsp;on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in theConsolidated Statements of Income.120 Table of ContentsCash flow hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedgeaccounting relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives, for the threeand six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009. The Firm includes the gain (loss)&nbsp;on the hedging derivative inthe same line item as the offsetting change in cash flows on the hedged item in the ConsolidatedStatements of Income.Over the next 12&nbsp;months, it is expected that $62&nbsp;million (after tax) of net losses recorded inAOCI at June&nbsp;30, 2009, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. The maximum lengthof time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 10&nbsp;years, and such transactions primarilyrelate to core lending and borrowing activities.Net investment hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in netinvestment hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on suchderivatives for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009.121 Table of ContentsRisk management derivatives gains and losses (not designated as hedging instruments)The following table presents nontrading derivatives, by contract type, that were not designated inhedge relationships, and the pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;recorded on such derivatives for the three andsix months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009. These derivatives are risk management instruments used to mitigateor transform the risk of market exposures arising from banking activities other than tradingactivities, which are discussed separately below.Trading derivative gains and lossesThe Firm has elected to present derivative gains and losses related to its trading activitiestogether with the cash instruments with which they are risk managed. All amounts are recorded inprincipal transactions revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and sixmonths ended June&nbsp;30, 2009.Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent featuresIn addition to the specific market risks introduced by each derivative contract type, derivativesexpose JPMorgan Chase to credit risk &#150; the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meettheir payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the collateral, if any, held by theFirm proves to be of insufficient value to cover the payment obligation. The amount of derivativereceivables reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is the fair value of the derivativecontracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateralheld by the Firm. These amounts represent the cost to the Firm to replace the contracts atthen-current market rates should the counterparty default. However, in management's view, theappropriate measure of current credit risk should take into consideration other additional liquidsecurities held as collateral by the Firm, which is disclosed in the table below.While derivative receivables expose the Firm to credit risk, derivative payables expose the Firm toliquidity risk, as the derivative contracts typically require the Firm to post cash or securitiescollateral with counterparties as the MTM moves in the counterparties' favor, or upon specifieddowngrades in the Firm's and its subsidiaries' respective credit ratings. At June&nbsp;30, 2009, theimpact of a single-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase & Co., and itssubsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would have required $1.2&nbsp;billion and $4.0billion, respectively, of additional collateral to be posted by the Firm. Certain derivativecontracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either theFirm or the counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative contracts. At June&nbsp;30, 2009, theimpact of a single-notch and six-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase & Co., and itssubsidiaries, primarily JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., related to contracts with termination triggerswould have required the Firm to settle trades with a fair value of $0.3&nbsp;million and $4.7&nbsp;billion,respectively. The aggregate fair value of net derivative payables that contain contingentcollateral or termination features triggered upon a downgrade was $28.7&nbsp;billion at June&nbsp;30, 2009,for which the Firm has posted collateral of $21.6&nbsp;billion in the normal course of business.122 Table of ContentsThe following table shows the current credit risk of derivative receivables after FIN 39 nettingand collateral received, and current liquidity risk of derivative payables after FIN 39 netting andcollateral posted, as of June&nbsp;30, 2009.In addition to the collateral amounts reflected in the table above, the Firm receives anddelivers collateral at the initiation of derivative transactions, which is available as securityagainst potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the transactions move in theFirm's or client's favor, respectively. The Firm and its counterparties also hold collateralrelated to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency for collateral to be posted, andcollateral that the Firm or a counterparty has agreed to return but has not yet settled, as of thereporting date. At June&nbsp;30, 2009, the Firm received collateral of $22.3&nbsp;billion and deliveredcollateral of $5.7&nbsp;billion of such additional collateral. These amounts were not netted against thederivative receivables and payables in the table above, because, at an individual counterpartylevel, the collateral exceeded the fair value exposure at June&nbsp;30, 2009.Credit derivativesCredit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived from the credit risk associatedwith the debt of a third-party issuer (the reference entity) and which allow one party (theprotection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection seller). Creditderivatives expose the protection purchaser to the creditworthiness of the protection seller, asthe protection seller is required to make payments under the contract when the reference entityexperiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to pay its obligation or arestructuring. The seller of credit protection receives a premium for providing protection but hasthe risk that the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject to a creditevent.The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives market anduses credit derivatives for two primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker in thedealer/client business, the Firm actively risk manages a portfolio of credit derivatives bypurchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet theneeds of customers. As a seller of protection, the Firm's exposure to a given reference entity maybe offset partially, or entirely, with a contract to purchase protection from another counterpartyon the same or similar reference entity. Second, the Firm uses credit derivatives to mitigatecredit risk associated with its overall derivative receivables and traditional commercial creditlending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments) as well as to manage its exposure to residentialand commercial mortgages.For a further discussion of credit derivatives, including a description of the different types usedby the Firm, see Note 32 on pages 202&#150;205 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents a summary of the notional amounts of credit derivatives andcredit-related notes the Firm sold and purchased as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. Upon acredit event, the Firm as seller of protection would typically pay out only a percentage of thefull notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount actually required to be paid on thecontracts takes into account the recovery value of the reference obligation at the time ofsettlement. The Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasingprotection with identical or similar underlying reference entities. As such, other purchasedprotection referenced in the following table includes credit derivatives bought on related, but notidentical, reference positions; these include indices, portfolio coverage and other referencepoints. The Firm does not use notional as the primary measure of risk management for creditderivatives because notional does not take into account the probability of occurrence of a creditevent, recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges.123 Table of ContentsTotal credit derivatives and credit-related notesThe following table summarizes the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives andcredit-related notes as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, where JPMorgan Chase is the sellerof protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the creditderivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on whichthe credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of protection purchasedare comparable to the profile reflected below.Protection sold &#151; credit derivatives and credit-related notes ratings/maturity profile124 Table of ContentsNOTE 6 &#151; OTHER NONINTEREST REVENUE For a discussion of the components of and accounting policies for the Firm's other noninterestrevenue, see Note 6 and Note 7 on pages 146&#150;149 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of investment banking fees.125 Table of ContentsNOTE 7 &#151; INTEREST INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows.NOTE8 &#151; PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANSFor a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's pension and other postretirement employee benefit (&#147;OPEB&#148;)plans, see Note 9 on pages 149&#150;155 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit cost reported in theConsolidated Statements of Income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEBplans.126 Table of ContentsThe fair value of plan assets for the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and thematerial non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $9.2&nbsp;billion and $2.2&nbsp;billion, respectively,as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and $8.1&nbsp;billion and $2.0&nbsp;billion, respectively, as of December&nbsp;31, 2008. SeeNote 22 on page 159 of this Form 10-Q for further information on unrecognized amounts (i.e., netloss and prior service costs/(credit)) reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income for thesix months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008.On January&nbsp;15, 2009, the Firm made a discretionary cash contribution to its U.S. defined benefitpension plan of $1.3&nbsp;billion, funding the plan to the maximum allowable amount under applicable taxlaw. The 2009 potential contributions for the Firm's U.S. non-qualified defined benefit pensionplans are $39&nbsp;million. The 2009 potential contributions for the Firm's non-U.S. defined benefitpension plans (excluding the main United Kingdom (&#147;U.K.&#148;) plan) are $44&nbsp;million and for OPEB plansare $2&nbsp;million. The amount of potential 2009 contributions to the Firm's main U.K. defined benefitpension plan is not reasonably estimable at this time.On May&nbsp;1, 2009, the Firm amended the employer matching contribution feature of the 401(k) SavingsPlan (the &#147;Plan&#148;) to provide that: (i)&nbsp;for employees earning less than $50,000, matchingcontributions will be based on their contributions to the Plan, but not to exceed 5% of theireligible compensation (e.g., base pay); and (ii)&nbsp;for employees earning $50,000 or more per year,matching contributions will be made at the discretion of the Firm's management, depending on theFirm's earnings for the year. Any such matching contributions will be made on an annual basis,following the end of the calendar year, to employees who are employed by the Firm at the end ofsuch year.Pursuant to a compromise and settlement agreement between JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and WashingtonMutual Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will become a contributing employer under the WaMu SavingsPlan effective as of September&nbsp;25, 2008, and the sponsor of the WaMu Savings Plan as of August&nbsp;10,2009. As of July&nbsp;28, 2009, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware entered anorder approving the compromise and settlement agreement, which will become final and non-appealableon August&nbsp;10, 2009.NOTE9 &#151; EMPLOYEE STOCK-BASED INCENTIVES For a discussion of the accounting policies and other information relating to employee stock-basedcompensation, see Note 10 on pages 155&#150;157 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The Firm recognized noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-basedincentive plans of $884&nbsp;million and $728&nbsp;million for the quarters ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008,respectively, and $1.7&nbsp;billion and $1.4&nbsp;billion in the first six months of 2009 and 2008,respectively, in its Consolidated Statements of Income. These amounts included an accrual for theestimated cost of stock awards to be granted to full-career eligible employees of $192&nbsp;million and$140&nbsp;million for the quarters ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $332&nbsp;million and $274million for the first six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.In the first quarter of 2009, the Firm granted 130&nbsp;million restricted stock units (&#147;RSUs&#148;), with agrant date fair value of $19.52 per RSU, in connection with its annual incentive grant.127 Table of ContentsNOTE10 &#151; NONINTEREST EXPENSE Merger costsCosts associated with the Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction are reflectedin the merger costs caption of the Consolidated Statements of Income. For a further discussion ofthe Bear Stearns merger and the Washington Mutual transaction, see Note 2 on pages 96&#150;99 of thisForm 10-Q. A summary of merger-related costs is shown in the following table.The table below shows changes in the merger reserve balance related to costs associated withthe transactions.128 Table of ContentsNOTE11 &#151; SECURITIES Securities are classified as AFS, held-to-maturity (&#147;HTM&#148;) or trading. For additional informationregarding AFS and HTM securities, see Note 12 on pages 158&#150;162 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport. Trading securities are discussed in Note 5 on pages116&#150;124 of this Form10-Q.Securities gains and lossesThe following table presents realized gains and realized and unrealized losses that were recognizedin income from AFS securities.The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for thedates indicated.129 Table of ContentsSecurities impairmentThe following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by agingcategory at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.130 Table of ContentsOther-than-temporary impairmentInApril&nbsp;2009, the FASB amended the other-than-temporary impairment (&#147;OTTI&#148;) model for debtsecurities. The impairment model for equity securities was not affected. Under the new guidance,OTTI loss must be recognized in earnings if an investor has the intent to sell the debt security,or if it is more likely than not, will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of itsamortized cost basis. However, even if an investor does not expect to sell a debt security, it mustevaluate expected cash flows to be received and determine if a credit loss exists. In the event ofa credit loss, only the amount of impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized inincome. Amounts relating to factors other than credit losses are recorded in OCI. The guidance alsorequires additional disclosures regarding the calculation of credit losses, as well as factorsconsidered in reaching a conclusion that an investment is not other-than-temporarily impaired.JPMorgan Chase early adopted the new guidance effective for the period ending March&nbsp;31, 2009. TheFirm did not record a transition adjustment for securities held at March&nbsp;31, 2009, which werepreviously considered other-than-temporarily impaired, as the Firm intended to sell the securitiesfor which it had previously recognized OTTIs.AFS securities in unrealized loss positions are analyzed as part of the Firm's ongoing assessmentof OTTI. When the Firm intends to sell AFS securities, it recognizes an impairment loss equal tothe full difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of those securities.When the Firm does not intend to sell AFS equity or debt securities in an unrealized loss position,potential OTTI is considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent towhich the market value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to theindustry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of asecurity; payment structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a ratingagency; the volatility of the fair value changes, and changes in fair value of the security afterthe balance sheet date. For debt securities, the Firm estimates cash flows over the remaining livesof the underlying collateral to assess whether credit losses exist, and, where applicable underEITF Issue 99-20, to determine if any adverse changes in cash flows have occurred. The Firm's cashflow estimates take into account expectations of relevant market and economic data as of the end ofthe reporting period &#151; including, for example, for securities issued in a securitization,underlying loan-level data, and structural features of the securitization, such as subordination,excess spread, overcollateralization or other forms of credit enhancement. The Firm compares thelosses projected for the underlying collateral (&#147;pool losses&#148;) against the level of creditenhancement in the securitization structure to determine whether these features are sufficient toabsorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss on the AFS debt security exists. The Firm alsoperforms other analyses to support its cash flow projections, such as first-loss analyses or stressscenarios. For debt securities, the Firm considers a decline in fair value to beother-than-temporary when the Firm does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis ofthe security, including, as applicable under EITF Issue 99-20, when an adverse change in cash flowshas occurred. The Firm applies EITF Issue 99-20 to beneficial interests in securitizations that arerated below &#147;AA&#148; at acquisition, or that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in sucha way that the Firm would not recover substantially all of its recorded investment. For equitysecurities, the Firm considers the above factors, as well as the Firm's intent and ability toretain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery inmarket value, and whether evidence exists to support a realizable value equal to or greater thanthe carrying value. The Firm considers a decline in fair value of AFS equity securities to beother-than-temporary if it is probable that the Firm will not recover its amortized cost basis.Thefollowing table presents unrealized losses that are included in securities gains and lossesabove.131 Table of ContentsSince the first quarter of 2008, the Firm has increased its investment securities positions.Many of these securities were purchased at discounts to par, given the significant liquidityconstraints in the market. The timing and prices at which the Firm acquired its investments haveresulted in the majority of unrealized losses existing for less than 12&nbsp;months. Based on theanalyses described above, which have been applied to these securities, the Firm believes that theunrealized losses that it does not consider to be other-than-temporary result from liquidityconditions in the current market environment. As of June&nbsp;30, 2009, the Firm does not intend to sellthe securities with a loss position in AOCI, and it is not likely that the Firm will be required tosell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. As a result, except for thesecurities reported in the table above for which credit losses have been recognized in income, theFirm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-temporarilyimpaired as of June&nbsp;30, 2009.Following is a description of the Firm's main security investments and the key assumptions used inits estimate of the present value of the cash flows most likely to be collected from thoseinvestments.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; U.S. government agenciesAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, gross unrealized losses on mortgage-backed securities related to U.S. agencieswere $866&nbsp;million, of which $18&nbsp;million related to securities that have been in an unrealized lossposition for longer than 12&nbsp;months. These mortgage-backed securities do not have any credit losses,given the explicit and implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. federal government.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; Prime and Alt-A non-agencyAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to prime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securitiesissued by private issuers were $1.7&nbsp;billion, of which $1.3&nbsp;billion related to securities that havebeen in an unrealized loss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. Approximately one-third of these positions arecurrently rated &#147;AAA.&#148; Approximately half of the amortized cost of the investments in primeand Alt-A mortgage-backed securities have experienced downgrades and approximately one-third of theamortized cost of investments in prime and Alt-A mortgage-backed securities are currently ratedbelow investment grade. Despite the downgrades experienced, the portfolio generally continuesto possess credit enhancement levels sufficient to support the Firm's investment. However, the Firmhas recognized $66&nbsp;million of OTTIs in earnings for securities that have experienced increaseddelinquency rates associated with specific collateral types and origination dates. In analyzingprime and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities for potential credit losses, the key inputsto the Firm's cash flow projections were estimated peak-to-trough home price declines of up to 44%and an unemployment rate of 10.3%. The Firm's cash flow projections assumed liquidation rates of75% to 100% and loss severities of 45% to 55%, depending on the underlying collateral type andseasoning.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; SubprimeAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, there were no gross unrealized losses related to subprime residentialmortgage-backed securities (&#147;RMBS&#148;) in an unrealized loss position. During the three and six monthsended June&nbsp;30, 2009, the Firm recorded losses of $2&nbsp;million and $7&nbsp;million, respectively, onsubprime RMBS based on the Firm's intent to sell. In addition, the Firm realized losses of $17million and $28&nbsp;million, respectively, on sales of subprime RMBS during the three and six monthsended June&nbsp;30, 2009.Mortgage-backed securities &#151; CommercialAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to commercial mortgage-backed securities were$510&nbsp;million; none of the losses related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position forlonger than 12&nbsp;months. Substantially all of the Firm's commercial mortgage-backed securities arerated &#147;AAA&#148; and possess, on average, 27% subordination (a form of credit enhancement for thebenefit of senior securities, expressed here as the percentage of pool losses that can occur beforean asset-backed security will incur its first dollar of principal loss). In considering whetherpotential credit-related losses exist, the Firm conducted a scenario analysis, using high levels ofdelinquencies and losses over the near term, followed by lower levels over the long term. Specificassumptions included: (i)&nbsp;all loans more than 60&nbsp;days delinquent will default; (ii)&nbsp;additionaldefault rates for the remaining portfolio forecasted to be up to 8% in the near term and 2% in thelong term; and (iii)&nbsp;loss severity assumptions ranging from 45% in the near term to 40% in lateryears.132 Table of ContentsAsset-backed securities &#151; Credit card receivablesAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to credit card receivables asset-backedsecurities were $408&nbsp;million, of which $379&nbsp;million of the losses related to securities that werein an unrealized loss position for longer than 12&nbsp;months. Of the $408&nbsp;million of unrealized lossesrelated to credit card&#151;related asset-backed securities, $375&nbsp;million relates to purchased creditcard&#151;related asset-backed securities, and $33&nbsp;million related to retained interests in the Firm'sown credit card receivable securitizations. The credit card&#151;related asset-backed securitiesinclude &#147;AAA,&#148; &#147;AA,&#148; &#147;A&#148; and &#147;BBB&#148; ratings. One of the key metrics the Firm reviews for creditcard-related asset-backed securities is each trust's excess spread &#151; which is the creditenhancement resulting from cash that remains each month after payments are made to investors forprincipal and interest, and to servicers for servicing fees, and after credit losses are allocated.The average excess spread for the issuing trusts in which the Firm holds interests ranges from 1%to 6%. The Firm uses internal models to project the cash flows that impact excess spread. Forretained interests, the Firm uses its own underlying loan data as well as available marketbenchmarks. For purchased investments, the Firm uses available market benchmarks and trends tosupport the assumptions used in the projections. In analyzing potential credit losses, the primaryassumptions are underlying charge-off rates, which range from 9% to 16% (charge-off rates considerunderlying assumptions such as unemployment rates and roll rates), payment rates of 11% to 22%, andportfolio yields of 14% to 24%.Asset-backed securities &#151; Collateralized debt and loan obligationsAs of June&nbsp;30, 2009, gross unrealized losses related to collateralized debt and loan obligationswere $547&nbsp;million, of which $308&nbsp;million related to securities that were in an unrealized lossposition for longer than 12&nbsp;months. Substantially all of these securities are rated &#147;AAA&#148; and havean average of 28% credit enhancement. Credit enhancement in collateralized loan obligations(&#147;CLOs&#148;) is mainly composed of overcollateralization &#151; the excess of the par amount of collateralover the par amount of securities. The key assumptions considered in analyzing potential creditlosses were underlying loan and debt security defaults and loss severity. Based on current defaulttrends, the Firm assumed collateral default rates of 15% in 2009, 12% in 2010 and 5% thereafter.Further, loss severities were assumed to be 50% for loans and 80% for debt securities. Losses oncollateral were estimated to occur approximately 18&nbsp;months after default.133 Table of ContentsContractual maturities and yieldsThe following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at June&nbsp;30, 2009, ofJPMorgan Chase's AFS and HTM securities by contractual maturity.134 Table of ContentsNOTE 12 &#151; SECURITIES FINANCING ACTIVITIES For a discussion of accounting policies relating to securities financing activities, see Note 13 onpages 162-163 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. For further information regarding securitiesborrowed and securities lending agreements for which the SFAS 159 fair value option has beenelected, see Note 4 on pages 114-116 of this Form 10-Q.The following table details the components of collateralized financings.JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to collateralize repurchaseagreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by thesecured party are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on theConsolidated Balance Sheets.At June&nbsp;30, 2009, the Firm received securities as collateral that could be repledged, delivered orotherwise used with a fair value of approximately $597.5&nbsp;billion. This collateral was generallyobtained under resale or securities-borrowing agreements. Of these securities, approximately $435.6billion were repledged, delivered or otherwise used, generally as collateral under repurchaseagreements, securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.NOTE 13 &#151; LOANS The accounting for a loan is based on whether it is originated or purchased, and whether the loanis used in an investing or trading strategy. The measurement framework for loans in theConsolidated Financial Statements is one of the following:For adetailed discussion of accounting policies relating to loans, see Note 14 on pages 163-166of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. See Note 4 on pages 114-116 of this Form 10-Q for furtherinformation on the Firm's elections of fair value accounting under SFAS 159. See Note 3 on pages99-114 of this Form 10-Q for further information on loans carried at fair value and classified astrading assets.135 Table of ContentsThe composition of the Firm's aggregate loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was asfollows.The following table reflects information about the Firm's loan sales.136 Table of ContentsPurchased credit-impaired loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain loans that itdeemed to be credit-impaired under SOP 03-3. For a detailed discussion of purchased credit-impairedloans, including accounting policies, see Note 14 on pages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 AnnualReport.Purchased credit-impaired loans are reported in loans on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets.The allowance for loan losses, if required, would be reported as a reduction of the carrying amountof the loans. No allowance for loan losses has been recorded for these loans as of June&nbsp;30, 2009.The outstanding balance and the carrying amount of the purchased credit-impaired consumer loanswere as follows.The accretable yield represents the excess of cash flows expected to be collected over thefair value of the purchased credit-impaired loans. This amount is not reported on the Firm'sConsolidated Balance Sheets, but is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return overthe expected lives of the underlying loans. For variable rate loans, expected future cash flowswere initially based on the rate in effect at acquisition; expected future cash flows arerecalculated as rates change over the lives of the loans.The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for purchased credit-impaired consumerloans for the three and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009.Other impaired loansFor a detailed discussion of impaired loans, including types of impaired loans, certain troubleddebt restructurings and accounting policies relating to the interest income on these loans, seeNote 14 on pages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The tables below set forth information about JPMorgan Chase's impaired loans, excluding creditcard loans, which are discussed below. The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method forvaluing impaired loans.137 Table of ContentsIncluded in the table above are consumer loans, excluding credit card loans, that have beenmodified in a troubled debt restructuring, with balances of approximately $3.1&nbsp;billion and $1.8billion as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.For detailed discussion of modification of the terms of credit card loan agreements, see Note 14 onpages 163-166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. At June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, theFirm modified $3.7&nbsp;billion and $2.4&nbsp;billion, respectively, of on&#151;balance sheet credit card loansoutstanding.During the first quarter of 2009, the U.S. Treasury introduced the Making Home Affordable Plan(&#147;MHA&#148;), which includes programs designed to assist eligible homeowners by modifying the terms oftheir mortgages. The Firm is participating in MHA while continuing to expand its otherloss-mitigation efforts for financially stressed borrowers who do not qualify for the MHA programs.MHA and the Firm's other loss mitigation programs generally represent various forms of termextensions, rate reductions and forbearances provided to financially troubled borrowers. Underthese programs, borrowers must make three payments during a 90-day trial modification period and besuccessfully re-underwritten with income verification, before their loan is officially deemed to bemodified. Upon formal modification, the loan is generally accounted for as a troubled debtrestructuring. For purchased credit-impaired loans, the impact of the modification is incorporated intothe Firm's quarterly assessment of whether a probable and/or significant change in estimated futurecash flows has occurred and the loans continue to be reported as purchased credit-impaired loans.As of June&nbsp;30, 2009, approximately 26,000 approved trial mortgage modificationswith an unpaid principal balance of $8.3&nbsp;billion were includedon the Firm's balance sheet. Approximately $4.6&nbsp;billion of these loans were included in the Firm'spurchased credit impaired loan portfolio.138 Table of ContentsNOTE 14 &#151; ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES For further discussion of the allowance for credit losses and the related accounting policies, seeNote 15 on pages 166-168 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for loan losses.The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for lending-related commitments.NOTE 15 &#151; LOAN SECURITIZATIONS For a discussion of the accounting policies relating to loan securitizations, see Note 16 on pages168-176 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase securitizes and sells a variety ofloans, including residential mortgage, credit card, automobile, student, and commercial (primarilyrelated to real estate) loans. JPMorgan Chase&#151;sponsored securitizations use special-purposeentities (&#147;SPEs&#148;) as part of the securitization process. These SPEs are structured to meet thedefinition of a qualifying special-purpose entity (&#147;QSPE&#148;) (for a further discussion, see Note 1 onpage 122 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report); accordingly, the assets and liabilities ofsecuritization-related QSPEs are not reflected on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets (exceptfor retained interests, as described below). The primary purposes of these securitization vehiclesare to meet investor needs and to generate liquidity for the Firm through the sale of loans to theQSPEs, which are financed through the issuance of fixed- or floating-rate asset-backed securities.139 Table of ContentsThe following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in JPMorganChase&#151;sponsored securitization entities, for which sale accounting was achieved and to which theFirm has continuing involvement, at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008. Continuing involvementincludes servicing the loans, holding senior or subordinated interests, recourse or guaranteearrangements and derivative transactions. In certain instances, the Firm's only continuinginvolvement is servicing the loans.140 Table of ContentsSecuritization activity by major product typeThe following discussion describes the nature of the Firm's securitization activities by majorproduct type.Credit card securitizationsOverviewThe Card Services (&#147;CS&#148;) business securitizes originated and purchased credit card loans, primarilythrough the Chase Issuance Trust (the &#147;Trust&#148;). The Firm's primary continuing involvement aftersecuritization includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided seller's interest in thereceivables, retaining certain senior and subordinated securities and maintaining escrow accounts.CS maintains servicing responsibilities for all credit card securitizations that it sponsors. Asservicer and transferor, the Firm receives contractual servicing fees based on the securitized loanbalance plus excess servicing fees, which are recorded in credit card income as discussed in Note 6on page 125 of this Form 10-Q. The Firm acquired the seller's interest in the Washington MutualMaster Trust (the &#147;WMM Trust&#148;) and became its sponsor in connection with the Washington Mutualtransaction. For further discussion of credit card securitizations, see Note 16 on pages 169&#150;170 ofJPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report.Actions taken in the second quarter of 2009During the quarter ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, the overallperformance of the Firm's credit card securitization trustsdeclined primarily due to the increase in credit lossesincurred on the underlying credit card receivables.Trust: TheChase Issuance Trust (the Firm's primary issuance trust), whichholds prime quality credit card receivables, maintained positiveexcess spread, a key metric for evaluating the performance of acredit card trust, through the first six months of 2009. However,given market uncertainty concerning projected credit costs in thecredit card industry, and to mitigate any further deterioration in the performance of the Trust, the Firm tookcertain actions, as permitted by the Trust agreements, to enhance the performance of the Trust. OnMay&nbsp;12, 2009, the Firm increased the required credit enhancement level for each tranche ofoutstanding notes issued by the Trust by increasing the minimum required amountof subordinated notes and the funding requirements for the Trust's cash escrow accounts.On June&nbsp;1, 2009, the Firm began designating as &#147;discount receivables&#148; a percentage of new creditcard receivables for inclusion in the Trust, thereby requiring collections of such discountedreceivables to be applied as finance charge collections in the Trust, which is expected to increasethe excess spread for the Trust. The Firm expects to discontinue designating a percentage of newreceivables as discount receivables on July&nbsp;1, 2010. Also, during the second quarter of 2009, theFirm exchanged $3.5&nbsp;billion of its undivided seller's interest in the Trust for $3.5&nbsp;billion ofzero-coupon subordinated securities issued by the Trust and retained by the Firm. The issuance ofthe zero-coupon securities by the Trust is also expected to increase the excess spread for theTrust. These actions resulted in the addition of approximately $40&nbsp;billion of risk-weighted assetsfor regulatory capital purposes, which decreased the Firm's Tier 1 capital ratio byapproximately 40 basis points, but did not have a material impacton the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results ofoperations.WMM Trust: At the time of the acquisition of the Washington Mutual banking operations, the assets of theWMM Trust were comprised of Washington Mutual subprime credit card receivables. The quality of theassets in the WMM Trust was much lower than the quality of the credit card receivables thatJPMorgan Chase has historically securitized in the public markets.In order to more closely conform the WMM Trust to the overall quality typical of a JPMorganChase-sponsored credit card securitization master trust, during the fourth quarter of 2008 the Firmrandomly removed $6.2&nbsp;billion of credit card loans from the WMM Trust and replaced them with $5.8billion of higher-quality receivables from the Firm's portfolio.However, as a result of continued deterioration during 2009 in the credit quality of theremaining Washington Mutual-originated assets in the WMM Trust, the performance of the portfolioindicated that an early amortization event was likely to occur unless additional actions weretaken. On May&nbsp;15, 2009, JPMorgan Chase, as seller and servicer, and the Bank of New York Mellon, astrustee, amended the pooling and servicing agreement to permit non-random removals of credit cardaccounts. On May&nbsp;19, 2009, the Firm removed all remaining credit card receivables originated byWashington Mutual. Following this removal, the WMM Trust collateral was entirely comprised ofreceivables originated by JPMorgan Chase. As a result of the actions taken by the Firm, the assetsand liabilities of the WMM Trust were consolidated on the balance sheet of JPMorgan Chase. As aresult, the Firm has recorded during the second quarter of 2009, additional assets with an initialfair value of $6.0&nbsp;billion, additional liabilities with an initial fair value of $6.1&nbsp;billion, anda pre-tax loss of approximately $64&nbsp;million.Retained interests in nonconsolidated credit card securitizationsFollowingis a description of the Firm's retained interests in credit cardsecuritizations that were not consolidated at the dates presented.Accordingly, the Firms's retained interests in the WMM Trust areincluded in the amounts reported at December 31, 2008, but are nolonger included at June 30, 2009, due to the second quarter actionsnoted above. For further information regarding the WMM Trust assetsand liabilities, see Note 16 on pages 148-153 of this Form 10-Q.The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain aminimum undivided interest in the trusts (which generally ranges from 4% to 12%). At June&nbsp;30, 2009and December&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firm had $10.5&nbsp;billion and $33.3&nbsp;billion, respectively, related to itsundivided interests in the trusts. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principalreceivables in the trusts of approximately 18% for the six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, and 22% forthe year ended December&nbsp;31, 2008. These undivided interests in the trusts represent the Firm'sinterests in141 Table of Contentsthe receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securitized; these undivided interestsare not represented by security certificates, are carried at historical cost and classified withinloans.CS retained senior and subordinated securities in its credit card securitization trusts. Thesenior securities totaled $7.2&nbsp;billion and $3.5&nbsp;billion at June&nbsp;30, 2009 and December&nbsp;31, 2008,respectively, and the subordinated securities totaled $5.8&nbsp;billion and $2.3&nbsp;billion at June&nbsp;30,2009 and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. Of the securities retained, $13.0&nbsp;billion and $5.4billion were classified as AFS securities at June&nbsp;30, 2009 and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. Thesenior AFS securities were used by the Firm as collateral for a secured financing transaction. Theretained subordinated interests that were acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction andclassified as trading assets had a carrying value of$389&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31, 2008, and were subsequentlyrepaid orvalued at zero before being eliminated upon the consolidation of the WMM Trust. Asdiscussed above, the Firm consolidated the assets and liabilities of the WMM Trust in the secondquarter of 2009.Credit card securitizations include escrow accounts up to predetermined limits to coverdeficiencies in cash flows owed to investors. Amounts in such escrow accounts were $964&nbsp;million and$74&nbsp;million as of June&nbsp;30, 2009 and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. The increase in the balance ofthese escrow accounts primarily relates to the Trust actions described above that the Firm took on May12, 2009. Additionally, the Firm has retained subordinated interests in accrued interest and feeson the securitized receivables totaling $3.2&nbsp;billion and $3.0&nbsp;billion as of June&nbsp;30, 2009 andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. JPMorgan Chase has also recorded $241&nbsp;million representingreceivables that have been transferred to the Trust and designated as &#147;discount receivables.&#148; Allof these residual interests are reported in other assets.Mortgage securitizationsThe Firm securitizes originated and purchased residential mortgages and originated commercialmortgages.RFS securitizes residential mortgage loans that it originates and purchases, and it typicallyretains servicing for all of its originated and purchased residential mortgage loans. Additionally,RFS may retain servicing for certain mortgage loans purchased by IB. As servicer, the Firm receivesservicing fees based on the securitized loan balance plus ancillary fees. The Firm also retains theright to service the residential mortgage loans it sells to Government National MortgageAssociation (&#147;GNMA&#148;), Federal National Mortgage Association (&#147;FNMA&#148;) and Federal Home Loan MortgageCorporation (&#147;FHLMC&#148;) in accordance with their servicing guidelines and standards. For a discussionof MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 154&#150;155 of this Form 10-Q. In a limited number of securitizations,RFS may retain an interest in addition to servicing rights. The amount of interest retained relatedto these securitizations totaled $397&nbsp;million and $939&nbsp;million at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31,2008, respectively. These retained interests are accounted for as trading or AFS securities; theclassification depends on whether the retained interest is represented by a security certificate orhas an embedded derivative, and when it was retained (i.e., prior to the adoption of SFAS 155).IB securitizes residential mortgage loans (including those that it purchased and certain mortgageloans originated by RFS) and commercial mortgage loans that it originated. These loans are oftenserviced by RFS. Upon securitization, IB may engage in underwriting and trading activities of thesecurities issued by the securitization trust. IB may retain unsold senior and/or subordinatedinterests (including residual interests) in both residential and commercial mortgagesecuritizations at the time of securitization. These retained interests are accounted for at fairvalue and classified as trading assets. The amount of residual interests retained was $46&nbsp;millionand $155&nbsp;million at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively. Additionally, IB retained$2.4&nbsp;billion and $2.8&nbsp;billion of senior and subordinated interests as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, andDecember&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively; these securities were retained in connectionwith the Firm's underwriting activities.In addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity tables below, the Firm soldresidential mortgage loans totaling $40.2&nbsp;billion and $39.4&nbsp;billion during the three months endedJune&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $78.4&nbsp;billion and $69.1&nbsp;billion during the six monthsended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of these loan sales were forsecuritization by the GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC. These sales resulted in pretax gains (losses)&nbsp;of $34million and $36&nbsp;million during the three months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $51million and $26&nbsp;million during the six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.The Firm's mortgage loan sales are primarily nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the riskof future credit losses to the purchaser of the loans. However, for a limited number of loan sales,the Firm is obligated to share up to 100% of the credit risk associated with the sold loans withthe purchaser. See Note 24 on pages 162&#150;163 of this Form 10-Q for additional information on loanssold with recourse.142 Table of ContentsOther securitizationsThe Firm also securitizes automobile and student loans originated by RFS and purchased consumerloans (including automobile and student loans). The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for alloriginated and certain purchased student and automobile loans. It may also hold a retained interestin these securitizations; such residual interests are classified as other assets. At June&nbsp;30, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, the Firm held $20&nbsp;million and $37&nbsp;million, respectively, of retainedinterests in securitized automobile loan securitizations, and $52&nbsp;million and $52&nbsp;million,respectively, of residual interests in securitized student loans.Securitization activityThe following tables provide information related to the Firm's securitization activities for thethree and six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, and 2008. For the periods presented, there were no cashflows from the Firm to the QSPEs related to recourse or guarantee arrangements.143 Table of Contents144 Table of ContentsJPMorgan Chase's interest in securitized assets held at fair valueThe following table summarizes the Firm's securitization interests, which are carried at fair valueon the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, respectively.The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes available. As of June&nbsp;30, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, 60% and 55%, respectively, of the Firm's retained securitization interests,which are carried at fair value, were risk-rated &#147;A&#148; or better.The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31,2008, to determine the fair value of certain of the Firm's retained interests, other than MSRs,that are valued using modeling techniques. The table below also outlines the sensitivities of thosefair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in assumptions used to determine fair value.For a discussion of residential MSRs, see Note 17 on pages 154&#150;155 of this Form 10-Q.145 Table of ContentsThe sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical. Changes in fair value basedon a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated easily, because therelationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also,in the table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value iscalculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result inchanges in another, which might counteract or magnify the sensitivities. The above sensitivitiesalso do not reflect risk management practices the Firm may undertake to mitigate such risks.146 Table of ContentsLoan delinquencies and net charge-offsThe table below includes information about delinquencies, net charge-offs/(recoveries) andcomponents of reported and securitized financial assets at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.147 Table of ContentsNOTE 16 &#151; VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES Refer to Note 1 on page 122 and Note 17 on pages 177&#150;186 of JPMorgan Chase's 2008 Annual Report fora further description of JPMorgan Chase's policies regarding consolidation of variable interestentities (&#147;VIEs&#148;) and the Firm's principal involvement with VIEs.Multi-seller conduitsThe following table summarizes the Firm's involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.On May&nbsp;31, 2009, the Firm consolidated one of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits due tothe redemption of the expected loss note (&#147;ELN&#148;). There were no consolidated Firm-administeredmulti-seller conduits as of December&nbsp;31, 2008.Assets funded by nonconsolidated multi-seller conduitsThe following table presents information on the commitments and assets held by JPMorgan Chase'snonconsolidated Firm-administered multi-seller conduits as of June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008.148 Table of ContentsThe assets held by the multi-seller conduits are structured so that if they were rated, theFirm believes the majority of them would receive an &#147;A&#148; rating or better by external ratingagencies. However, it is unusual for the assets held by the conduits to be explicitly rated by anexternal rating agency. Instead, the Firm's Credit Risk group assigns each asset purchase liquidityfacility an internal risk rating based on its assessment of the probability of default for thetransaction. The ratings provided in the above table reflect the S&P-equivalent ratings of theinternal rating grades assigned by the Firm.The risk ratings are periodically reassessed as information becomes available. As of June&nbsp;30, 2009,and December&nbsp;31, 2008, 93% and 90%, respectively, of the assets in the nonconsolidated conduitswere risk-rated &#147;A&#148; or better.Commercial paper issued by nonconsolidated multi-seller conduitsThe weighted-average life of commercial paper issued by nonconsolidated multi-seller conduits atJune&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was 20&nbsp;days and 27&nbsp;days, respectively, and the average yieldon the commercial paper at June&nbsp;30, 2009, and December&nbsp;31, 2008, was 0.3% and 0.6%, respectively.In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades and invests in commercial paper, includingpaper issued by the Firm-administered conduits. The percentage of commercial paper purchased by theFirm from all Firm-administered conduits during the six months ended June&nbsp;30, 2009, ranged fromless than 1% to approximately 4.7% on any given day. The largest daily amount of commercial paperoutstanding held by the Firm in any one multi-seller conduit during the quarter ended June&nbsp;30,2009, was approximately $852&nbsp;million, or 12%, of the conduit's commercial paper outstanding. TheFirm is not obligated under any agreement (contractual or noncontractual) to purchase thecommercial paper issued by nonconsolidated JPMorgan Chase&#150;administered conduits.149
