>Management's discussion and analysisThis section of JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;(&#8220;Annual Report&#8221;), provides Management's discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (&#8220;MD&A&#8221;) of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of Terms and Acronyms on pages 279-285&#32;for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking Statements on page 138) and in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;(&#8220;2016&#32;Form 10-K&#8221;), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors; reference is hereby made to both.JPMorgan Chase & Co.,&#32;a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;), with operations worldwide; the Firm had $2.5 trillion&#32;in assets and $254.2 billion&#32;in stockholders' equity as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016.&#32;The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23&#32;states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (&#8220;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association that is the Firm's credit card-issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (&#8220;JPMorgan Securities&#8221;), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm's principal operating subsidiaries in the U.K.&#32;is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. &#160;For management reporting purposes, the Firm's activities are organized into four&#32;major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm's consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (&#8220;CCB&#8221;) segment. The Firm's wholesale business segments are Corporate & Investment Bank (&#8220;CIB&#8221;), Commercial Banking (&#8220;CB&#8221;), and Asset & Wealth Management (&#8220;AWM&#8221;) (formerly Asset Management or &#8220;AM&#8221;). For a description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases, refer to Business Segment Results on pages 51&#8211;70, and Note 33.This executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a complete description of the trends and uncertainties, as well as the risks and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Summary of 2016 resultsJPMorgan Chase reported strong results for full year 2016 with net income of $24.7 billion, or $6.19 per share, on net revenue of $95.7 billion. The Firm reported ROE of 10% and ROTCE of 13%.Net income increased 1% compared with the prior year driven by lower noninterest expense and higher net revenue, predominantly offset by higher income tax expense and provision for credit losses. Total net revenue increased by 2% primarily reflecting higher net interest income across all the Firm's business segments and higher Markets noninterest revenue in CIB, partially offset by lower card income in CCB and lower asset management fees in AWM. Noninterest expense was $55.8 billion, down 5% compared with the prior year, driven by lower legal expense.The provision for credit losses was $5.4 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, reflecting an increase in the total consumer provision related to additions in the allowance for loan losses and higher net charge-offs in the credit card portfolio, and a lower benefit in the residential real estate portfolio driven by a lower reduction in the allowance for &#160;loan losses compared with the prior year. The wholesale provision had a modest increase, largely driven by the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios.The total allowance for credit losses was $14.9 billion at December&#160;31, 2016, and the Firm had a loan loss coverage ratio, excluding the PCI portfolio, of 1.34%, compared with 1.37% in the prior year. The Firm's nonperforming assets totaled $7.5 billion, an increase from the prior-year level of $7.0 billion.Firmwide average core loans increased 15% compared with the prior year.Within CCB, average core loans increased 20% from the prior year. CCB had record growth in average deposits, with a 10% increase from the prior year. Credit card sales volume increased 10%, and merchant processing volume increased 12%, from the prior year. CCB had nearly 27 million active mobile customers at year-end 2016, an increase of 16% from the prior year. CIB maintained its #1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees with a 8.1% wallet share for the full-year ended December 31, 2016. Within CB, record average loans increased 14% from the prior year as loans in the commercial and industrial client segment increased 9% and loans in the wholesale commercial real estate client segment increased 18%. AWM had record average loans, an increase of 5% over the prior year, and 79% of AWM's mutual fund assets under management ranked in the 1st or 2nd quartiles over the past 5 years. For a detailed discussion of results by line of business (&#8220;LOB&#8221;), refer to the Business Segment Results on&#32;pages 51&#8211;52. The Firm added to its capital, ending the full-year of 2016 with a TBVPS of $51.44, up 7% over the prior year. The Firm's estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 capital and ratio were $182 billion and 12.2%, respectively. The Fully Phased-In supplementary leverage ratio (&#8220;SLR&#8221;) for the Firm and for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. was 6.5% and 6.6%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2016. The Firm also was compliant with the Fully Phased-In U.S. LCR and had $524 billion of HQLA as of December&#160;31, 2016. For further discussion of the LCR and HQLA, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;115.ROTCE and TBVPS are non-GAAP financial measures. Core loans are considered a key performance measure. Each of the Fully Phased-In capital and leverage measures is considered a key regulatory capital measure. For a further discussion of these measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 48&#8211;50, and Capital Risk Management on pages 76&#8211;85.Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase continues to support consumers, businesses and communities around the globe. The Firm provided credit and raised capital of $2.4 trillion for commercial and consumer clients during the full-year of 2016:On October 1, 2016, the Firm filed with the Federal Reserve and the FDIC its submission (the &#8220;2016 Resolution Submission&#8221;) describing how the Firm remediated certain deficiencies, and providing a status report on its actions to address certain shortcomings, that had been identified by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in April 2016 when those agencies provided feedback to the Firm as well as to seven&#160;other systemically important domestic banking institutions on their respective 2015 Resolution Plans.Among the steps taken by the Firm to address the identified deficiencies and shortcomings were: (i) establishing a new subsidiary that has become an &#8220;intermediate holding company&#8221; and to which JPMorgan Chase & Co. has contributed the stock of substantially all of its direct subsidiaries (other than JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.), as well as other assets and intercompany indebtedness owing to JPMorgan Chase & Co.; (ii) increasing the Firm's liquidity reserves and pre-positioning significant amounts of capital and liquidity at the Firm's &#8220;material legal entities&#8221; (as defined in the 2016 Resolution Submission); (iii) refining the Firm's liquidity and capital governance frameworks, including establishing a Firmwide &#8220;trigger framework&#8221; that identifies key actions and escalations that would need to be taken, as well as decisions that would need to be made, at critical points in time if certain defined liquidity and/or capital metrics were to fall below defined thresholds; (iv) establishing clear, actionable legal entity rationalization criteria and related governance procedures; and (v) improving divestiture readiness, including determining and analyzing divestiture options in a crisis. On December 13, 2016, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC informed the Firm that they had determined that the Firm's 2016 Resolution Submission adequately remediated the identified deficiencies in the Firm's 2015 Resolution Plan. For more information, see the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites, and the Firm's website for the public portion of the 2016 Resolution Submission.&#160;Business outlook &#32;These current expectations are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 138&#32;and the Risk Factors section on pages 8&#8211;21.Business outlookJPMorgan Chase's outlook for the full-year 2017 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical&#32;environment, the competitive environment, client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of these inter-related factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its lines of business. The Firm expects it will continue to make appropriate adjustments to its businesses and operations in response to ongoing developments in the legal and regulatory, as well as business and economic, environment in which it operates. In the first quarter of 2017, management expects net interest income to increase modestly compared with the fourth quarter of 2016. During 2017, assuming no change in interest rates since December 31, 2016, management expects net interest income could be approximately $3 billion higher than in 2016, reflecting the Federal Reserve's rate increase in December 2016 and expected loan growth. Management expects average core loan growth of approximately 10% in 2017.The Firm continues to experience charge-off rates at or near historically low levels, reflecting favorable credit trends across the consumer and wholesale portfolios. Management expects total net charge-offs of approximately $5 billion in 2017. In Card, management expects the portfolio average net charge-off rate to increase in 2017, but remain below 3.00%, reflecting continued loan growth and the seasoning of newer vintages, with quarterly net-charge offs reflecting normal seasonal trends.Management believes that the consumer allowance for credit losses could increase by approximately $300 million in 2017, reflecting growth across businesses, offset by reductions in the allowance for the residential real estate portfolio. Excluding the allowance related to the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines and Metals & Mining portfolios, management expects that the wholesale allowance for credit losses could increase modestly in 2017 reflecting growth across businesses. Continued stability in the energy sector could result in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses in future periods. As management continually looks to enhance its credit loss estimation methodologies, the outlook for the allowance for credit losses does not take into consideration any such potential refinements.The Firm continues to take a disciplined approach to managing its expenses, while investing in growth and innovation. As a result, Firmwide adjusted expense in 2017 is expected to be approximately $58 billion (excluding Firmwide legal expense).In CCB, management expects Mortgage noninterest revenue to decrease approximately $700 million in 2017, driven by margin compression in a smaller mortgage market and continued run-off of the Servicing portfolio, as well as approximately $200 million of MSR gains in 2016 which are not expected to recur in 2017. Management expects Card Services noninterest revenue to decrease approximately $600 million in 2017, reflecting the amortization of premiums on strong new product originations and the absence in 2017 of a gain on the sale of Visa Europe interests in 2016, although total Card Services revenue is expected to increase due to strong growth in net interest income. In the first quarter of 2017, management expects CCB expense to increase by approximately $150 million, compared to the prior quarter.In CIB, Investment Banking revenue in the first quarter of 2017 is expected to be approximately in line with the fourth quarter of 2016, dependent on the timing of the closing of a number of transactions. Treasury Services revenue is expected to be approximately $950 million in the first quarter of 2017. In addition, management currently expects Markets revenue in the first quarter of 2017 to increase modestly compared to the prior year quarter, with results sensitive to market conditions in March in light of particularly strong revenue in March 2016. In Securities Services, management expects revenue of approximately $900 million in the first quarter of 2017.In CB, management expects expense of approximately $775 million in the first quarter of 2017.In AWM, management expects revenue to be approximately $3 billion in the first quarter of 2017.Management's discussion and analysisThis section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&#160;31, 2016, unless otherwise specified. Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 132&#8211;134.2016 compared with 2015Total net revenue increased by 2% primarily reflecting higher net interest income across all the Firm's business segments and higher Markets noninterest revenue in CIB, partially offset by lower card income in CCB and lower asset management fees in AWM.Investment banking fees decreased predominantly due to lower equity underwriting fees driven by declines in industry-wide fee levels. For additional information on investment banking fees, see CIB segment results on pages 58&#8211;62&#32;and Note 7.Principal transactions revenue increased reflecting broad-based strength across products in CIB's Fixed Income Markets business. Rates performance was strong, with increased client activity driven by high issuance-based flows, global political developments, and central bank actions. Credit revenue improved driven by higher market-making revenue from the secondary market as clients' appetite for risk recovered. For additional information, see CIB and Corporate segment results on pages 58&#8211;62&#32;and pages 69&#8211;70, respectively, and Note 7.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue decreased reflecting lower asset management fees in AWM driven by a reduction in revenue related to the disposal of assets at the beginning of 2016, the impact of lower average equity market levels and lower performance &#160;fees, as well as due to lower brokerage commissions and other fees in CIB and AWM. For additional information, see the segment discussions of CIB and AWM on pages 58&#8211;62&#32;and pages 66&#8211;68, respectively, and Note 7.For information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see the segment results for CCB on pages 53&#8211;57, CIB on pages 58&#8211;62, and CB on pages 63&#8211;65&#32;and Note 7; on securities gains, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 69&#8211;70.Mortgage fees and related income were relatively flat, as lower mortgage servicing revenue related to lower average third-party loans serviced was predominantly offset by higher MSR risk management results. For further information on mortgage fees and related income, see the segment discussion of CCB on pages 53&#8211;57&#32;and Notes 7 and 17.Card income decreased predominantly driven by higher new account origination costs and the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements, partially offset by higher card sales volume and other card-related fees. For further information, see CCB segment results on pages 53&#8211;57&#32;and Note 7.Other income increased primarily reflecting:partially offset byFor further information on other income, see Note 7.Net interest income increased primarily driven by loan growth across the businesses and the net impact of higher rates, partially offset by lower investment securities balances and higher interest expense on long-term debt. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion in 2016, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable equivalent (&#8220;FTE&#8221;) basis, was 2.25%, an increase of 11 basis points from the prior year.2015 compared with 2014Total net revenue for 2015 was down by 2%, predominantly driven by lower Corporate private equity gains, lower CIB revenue reflecting the impact of business simplification initiatives, and lower CCB Mortgage Banking revenue. These decreases were partially offset by a benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate, and higher operating lease income, predominantly in CCB.Investment banking fees increased reflecting higher advisory fees, partially offset by lower equity and debt underwriting fees. The increase in advisory fees was driven by a greater share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in industry-wide fee levels. The decrease in equity underwriting fees resulted from lower industry-wide issuance, and the decrease in debt underwriting fees resulted primarily from lower loan syndication and bond underwriting fees on lower industry-wide fee levels.Principal transactions revenue decreased reflecting lower private equity gains in Corporate driven by lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales as the Firm exits this non-core business. The decrease was partially offset by higher client-driven market-making revenue, particularly in foreign exchange, interest rate and equity-related products in CIB, as well as a gain of approximately $160 million on CCB's investment in Square, Inc. upon its initial public offering.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue decreased largely as a result of lower fees in CIB and lower performance fees in AWM. The decrease was partially offset by higher asset management fees as a result of net client inflows into assets under management and the impact of higher average market levels in AWM and CCB. Mortgage fees and related income decreased reflecting lower servicing revenue, largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced, and lower net production revenue reflecting a lower repurchase benefit. For information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see the segment results for CCB on pages 53&#8211;57, CIB on pages 58&#8211;62, and CB on pages 63&#8211;65&#32;and Note 7; on securities gains, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 69&#8211;70; and card income, see CCB segment results on pages 53&#8211;57.Other income was relatively flat reflecting a $514 million benefit from a legal settlement in Corporate, higher operating lease income as a result of growth in auto operating lease assets in CCB, and the absence of losses related to the exit of non-core portfolios in Card. These increases were offset by the impact of business simplification in CIB; the absence of a benefit recognized in 2014 from a franchise tax settlement; and losses related to the accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits.Net interest income was relatively flat as lower loan yields, lower investment securities net interest income, and lower trading asset balance and yields were offset by higher average loan balances and lower interest expense on deposits. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.1 trillion in 2015, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a FTE basis, was 2.14%, a decrease of 4 basis points from the prior year.&#160;2016 compared with 2015The provision for credit losses reflected an increase in the total consumer provision and, to a lesser extent, the wholesale provision. The increase in the total consumer provision was predominantly driven by:The increase in the wholesale provision was largely driven by the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios. For a more detailed discussion of the credit portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 53&#8211;57, CIB on pages 58&#8211;62&#32;, CB on pages 63&#8211;65, the Allowance For Credit Losses on pages 105&#8211;107&#32;and Note 15.2015 compared with 2014The provision for credit losses increased as a result of an increase in the wholesale provision, largely reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the consumer provision, reflecting lower net charge-offs due to continued discipline in credit underwriting, as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home prices and lower unemployment levels. The decrease in the consumer provision was partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses. Management's discussion and analysis2016 compared with 2015Total noninterest expense decreased by 5% driven by lower legal expense.Compensation expense was relatively flat predominantly driven by higher performance-based compensation expense and investments in several businesses, offset by the impact of continued expense reduction initiatives, including lower headcount in certain businesses.Noncompensation expense decreased as a result of lower legal expense (including lower legal professional services expense), the impact of efficiencies, and reduced non-U.S. tax surcharges. These factors were partially offset by higher depreciation expense from growth in auto operating lease assets and higher investments in marketing. For a further discussion of legal expense, see Note 31.2015 compared with 2014Total noninterest expense decreased by 4% as a result of lower CIB expense, predominantly reflecting the impact of business simplification; and lower CCB expense resulting from efficiencies related to declines in headcount-related expense and lower professional fees. These decreases were partially offset by investment in the businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.Compensation expense decreased predominantly driven by lower performance-based incentives and reduced headcount, partially offset by higher postretirement benefit costs and investment in the businesses, including for infrastructure and controls.&#160;Noncompensation expense decreased reflecting benefits from business simplification in CIB; lower professional and outside services expense, reflecting lower legal services expense and a reduced number of contractors in the businesses; lower amortization of intangibles; and the absence of a goodwill impairment in Corporate. These factors were partially offset by higher depreciation expense, largely associated with higher auto operating lease assets in CCB; higher marketing expense in CCB; and higher FDIC-related assessments. Legal expense was relatively flat compared with the prior year. 2016 compared with 2015The effective tax rate in 2016 was affected by changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal and state and local taxes, tax benefits related to the utilization of certain deferred tax assets, as well as the adoption of new accounting guidance related to employee stock-based incentive payments.&#160;These tax benefits were partially offset by higher income tax expense from tax audits. The lower effective tax rate in 2015 was predominantly driven by $2.9 billion of tax benefits, which reduced the Firm's effective tax rate by 9.4 percentage points. The recognition of tax benefits in 2015 resulted from the resolution of various tax audits, as well as the release of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities. For additional details on the impact of the new accounting guidance, see Accounting and Reporting Developments on page 135&#32;and for further information see Note 26.2015 compared with 2014The effective tax rate decreased predominantly due to the recognition in 2015 of tax benefits of $2.9 billion and other changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, partially offset by prior-year tax adjustments. See above for details on the $2.9 billion of tax benefits.The following is a discussion of the significant changes between December 31, 2016 and 2015.Cash and due from banks and deposits with banksThe increase was primarily driven by deposit growth in excess of loan growth. The Firm's excess cash is placed with various central banks, predominantly Federal Reserve Banks.Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreementsThe increase was due to higher demand for securities to cover short positions related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, and the deployment of excess cash by Treasury and Chief Investment Office (&#8220;CIO&#8221;). For additional information on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 110&#8211;115.Trading assets and liabilities&#8211;debt and equity instruments The increase in trading assets and liabilities was predominantly related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB. The increase in trading assets reflected higher debt and, to a lesser extent, equity instrument inventory levels to facilitate client demand. The increase in trading liabilities reflected higher levels of client-driven short positions in both debt and equity instruments. For additional information, refer to Note 3.Trading assets and liabilities&#8211;derivative receivables and payablesThe change in derivative receivables and payables was predominantly related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB. The increase in derivative receivables reflected the impact of market movements, which increased foreign exchange receivables, partially offset by reduced commodity derivative receivables. The decrease in derivative payables reflected the impact of market &#160;movements, which reduced commodity payables. For additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 102&#8211;103, and Notes 3&#32;and 6. SecuritiesThe decrease was predominantly due to net sales, maturities and paydowns during the year of non-agency mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;MBS&#8221;), corporate debt securities and asset-backed securities (&#8220;ABS&#8221;), offset by purchases of U.S. Treasuries. For additional information, see Notes 3&#32;and 12.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe increase in loans was driven by higher consumer and wholesale loans. The increase in consumer loans was due to retention of originated high-quality prime mortgages in CCB and AWM, and growth in credit card and auto loans in CCB. The increase in wholesale loans was predominantly driven by originations of commercial real estate loans in CB and commercial and industrial loans across multiple industries in CB and CIB. The increase in the allowance for loan losses was attributable to additions to the wholesale allowance driven by downgrades in the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios. The consumer allowance was flat from the prior year and reflected reductions in the allowance for loan losses in the residential real estate portfolio reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies, and due to runoff in the student loan portfolio; these factors were offset by additions to the allowance reflecting the impact of loan growth in the credit card portfolio (including newer vintages which, as anticipated, have higher loss rates compared to the overall portfolio), as well as due Management's discussion and analysisto loan growth in the auto and business banking loan portfolios. For a more detailed discussion of loans and the allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 86&#8211;107, and Notes 3, 4, 14&#32;and 15.Accrued interest and accounts receivableThe increase reflected higher receivables from merchants in CCB and higher client receivables related to client-driven activity in CIB.&#160;Mortgage servicing rightsFor additional information on MSRs, see Note 17.Other assetsThe increase reflected higher auto operating lease assets from growth in business volume in CCB and higher cash collateral pledged in CIB.DepositsThe increase was attributable to higher consumer and wholesale deposits. The consumer increase reflected continuing strong growth from existing and new customers, and the impact of low attrition rates. The wholesale increase was driven by growth in operating deposits related to client activity in CIB's Treasury Services business, and inflows in AWM primarily from business growth and the impact of new rules governing money market funds. For more information on deposits, refer to the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 110&#8211;115; and Notes 3&#32;and 19.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe increase was predominantly due to higher client-driven market-making activities in CIB. For additional information on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 110&#8211;115.Commercial paperThe decrease reflected lower issuance in the wholesale markets consistent with Treasury and CIO's short-term funding plans. For additional information, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;115.&#160;Accounts payable and other liabilitiesThe increase was largely driven by higher client-driven activity in CIB.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsThe decrease was predominantly due to a reduction in commercial paper issued by conduits to third parties, partially offset by net new credit card securitizations. For further information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 45&#8211;46&#32;and Note 16.Long-term debtThe increase was due to net issuance of structured notes driven by client demand in CIB, and other net issuance consistent with Treasury and CIO's long-term funding plans, including liquidity actions related to the 2016 Resolution Submission. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activities, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;115&#32;and Note 21.Stockholders' equityThe increase was due to net income offset partially by cash dividends on common and preferred stock, and repurchases of common stock. For additional information on changes in stockholders' equity, see page 144, and on the Firm's capital actions, see Capital actions on page 84.In the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-balance sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (&#8220;U.S. GAAP&#8221;). The Firm is involved with several types of off&#8211;balance sheet arrangements, including through nonconsolidated SPEs, which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesThe most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, including the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically established for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a limited life and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and by creating investment products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-seller conduits, investor intermediation activities, and loan securitizations. See Note 16 for further information on these types of SPEs.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. could be required to provide funding if its short-term credit rating were downgraded below specific levels, primarily &#8220;P-1&#8221;, &#8220;A-1&#8221; and &#8220;F1&#8221; for Moody's Investors Service (&#8220;Moody's&#8221;), Standard & Poor's and Fitch, &#160;respectively. These liquidity commitments support the issuance of asset-backed commercial paper by Firm-administered consolidated SPEs. In the event of a short-term credit rating downgrade, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., absent other solutions, would be required to provide funding to the SPE if the commercial paper could not be reissued as it matured. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper outstanding held by third parties as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, was $2.7 billion&#32;and $8.7 billion, respectively. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper issued by these SPEs could increase in future periods should clients of the Firm-administered consolidated SPEs draw down on certain unfunded lending-related commitments. These unfunded lending-related commitments were $7.4 billion&#32;and $5.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. The Firm could facilitate the refinancing of some of the clients' assets in order to reduce the funding obligation. For further information, see the discussion of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits in Note 16.The Firm also acts as liquidity provider for certain municipal bond vehicles. The Firm's obligation to perform as liquidity provider is conditional and is limited by certain termination events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer and any credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade. See Note 16 for additional information.Off&#8211;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase&#32;provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees are refinanced, extended, cancelled, or expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments, and the Firm's accounting for them, see Lending-related commitments on page 101&#32;and Note 29. For a discussion of liabilities associated with loan sales and securitization-related indemnifications, see Note 29.Management's discussion and analysisContractual cash obligationsThe accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's significant contractual cash obligations at December&#160;31, 2016. The contractual cash obligations included in the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and determinable. Excluded from the below table are certain liabilities with variable cash flows and/or no obligation to return a stated amount of principal at maturity.&#160;The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum contractual amount of the obligations reported below. For a discussion of mortgage repurchase liabilities and other obligations, see Note 29.Operating activitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilities support the Firm's lending and capital markets activities, including the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale. Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven and risk management activities and market conditions. The Firm believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances and its capacity to generate cash through secured and unsecured sources are sufficient to meet the Firm's operating liquidity needs.Cash provided by operating activities in 2016, 2015 and 2014 reflected net income after noncash operating adjustments. Additionally, in 2016 cash provided reflected increases in accounts payable and trading liabilities related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB. The increase in trading liabilities reflected higher levels of client-driven short positions in both debt and equity instruments. Cash used in 2016 reflected an increase in trading assets, an increase in accounts receivable from merchants in CCB and higher client receivables related to client-driven activities in CIB; and higher net originations and purchases from loan held-for-sale activities. The increase in trading assets reflected higher debt and, to a lesser extent, equity instrument inventory levels to facilitate client demand. Cash provided in 2015 resulted from a decrease in trading assets, predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, resulting in lower levels of debt and equity securities. Additionally, cash provided reflected a decrease in accounts receivable due to lower client receivables and higher net proceeds from loan sales activities. This was partially offset by cash used due to a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities, resulting from lower brokerage customer payables related to client activity in CIB. In 2014, cash provided reflected higher net proceeds from loan securitizations and sales activities. Investing activitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantly include originating loans for investment, depositing cash at banks, and investing in the securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning assets. Cash used in investing activities in 2016 resulted from net originations of consumer and wholesale loans. The increase in consumer loans was due to retention of originated high-quality prime &#160;mortgages in CCB and AWM, and growth of credit card and auto loans in CCB. The increase in wholesale loans was predominantly driven by originations of commercial real estate loans in CB and commercial and industrial loans across multiple industries in CB and CIB. Additionally, in 2016, cash outflows reflected an increase in deposits with banks primarily due to growth in deposits in excess of growth in loans; an increase in securities purchased under resale agreements due to higher demand for securities to cover short positions related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB and the deployment of excess cash by Treasury and CIO. Cash provided by investing activities during 2015 predominantly resulted from lower deposits with banks due to the Firm's actions to reduce wholesale non-operating deposits; and net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, sales and purchases of investment securities. Partially offsetting these net inflows was cash used for net originations of consumer and wholesale loans, a portion of which reflected a shift from investment securities. Cash used in investing activities during 2014 resulted from increases in deposits with banks attributable to higher levels of excess funds; cash was also used for growth in wholesale and consumer loans in 2014. Partially offsetting these cash outflows in 2014 was a net decline in securities purchased under resale agreements due to a shift in the deployment of the Firm's excess cash by Treasury and CIO. Investing activities in 2014 also reflected net proceeds from paydowns, maturities, sales and purchases of investment securities.Financing activitiesThe Firm's financing activities includes acquiring customer deposits, issuing long-term debt, as well as preferred and common stock. Cash provided by financing activities in 2016 resulted from higher consumer and wholesale deposits, and an increase in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, predominantly due to higher client-driven market-making activities in CIB. Cash used in financing activities in 2015 resulted from lower wholesale deposits partially offset by higher consumer deposits. Additionally, in 2015 cash outflows were attributable to lower levels of commercial paper due to the discontinuation of a cash management product that offered customers the option of sweeping their deposits into commercial paper; lower commercial paper issuances in the wholesale markets; and a decrease in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements due to a decline in secured financings. Cash provided by financing activities in 2014 predominantly resulted from higher consumer and wholesale deposits. For all periods, cash was provided by net proceeds from long-term borrowings; and cash was used for repurchases of common stock and cash dividends on common and preferred stock.* * *For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm's cash flows, see Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis on pages 43&#8211;44, Capital Risk Management on pages 76&#8211;85, and Liquidity Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;115.Management's discussion and analysisNon-GAAP financial measuresThe Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements using U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear on pages 141&#8211;145. That presentation, which is referred to as &#8220;reported&#8221; basis, provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results, including the overhead ratio, and the results of the lines of business, on a &#8220;managed&#8221; basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on an FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. These non-GAAP financial measures allow management to assess the comparability of revenue from year-to-year arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact &#160;related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the Firm and business-segment level, because these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about the underlying operational performance and trends of the Firm or of the particular business segment, as the case may be, and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the Firm or the business segment with the performance of its relevant competitors. For additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see Business Segment Results on pages 51&#8211;70.Additionally, certain credit metrics and ratios disclosed by the Firm exclude PCI loans, and are therefore non-GAAP measures. For additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see Credit Risk Management on pages 86&#8211;107.Non-GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.(a) Predominantly recognized in CIB and CB business segments and Corporate.Net interest income excluding CIB's Markets businessesIn addition to reviewing net interest income on a managed basis, management also reviews net interest income excluding net interest income arising from CIB's Markets businesses to assess the performance of the Firm's lending, investing (including asset-liability management) and deposit-raising activities. CIB's Markets businesses represent both Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets. The data presented below are non-GAAP financial measures due to the exclusion of net interest income from CIB's Markets businesses (&#8220;CIB Markets&#8221;).Management believes this exclusion provides investors and analysts with another measure by which to analyze the non-markets-related business trends of the Firm and provides a comparable measure to other financial institutions that are primarily focused on lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.&#160;Management's discussion and analysisTangible common equity, ROTCE and TBVPSTangible common equity (&#8220;TCE&#8221;), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm's common stockholders' equity (i.e., total stockholders' equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm's net income applicable to common equity as a percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm's TCE at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE, ROTCE, and TBVPS are utilized by the Firm, as well as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm's use of equity. The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's common stockholders' equity to TCE.Key performance measuresThe Firm's capital, RWA, and capital and leverage ratios that are presented under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In rules and the Firm's, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s SLRs calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules are considered key regulatory capital measures. Such measures are used by banking regulators, investors and analysts to assess the Firm's regulatory capital position and to compare the Firm's regulatory capital to that of other financial services companies.&#160;For additional information on these measures, see Capital Risk Management on pages 76&#8211;85. Core loans are also considered a key performance measure. Core loans represent loans considered central to the Firm's ongoing businesses; and exclude loans classified as trading assets, runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios the Firm has an intent to exit. Core loans are utilized by the Firm and its investors and analysts in assessing actual growth in the loan portfolio.The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major reportable business segments &#8211; Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset & Wealth Management (formerly Asset Management). In addition, there is a Corporate segment.The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer &#160;served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, on pages 48&#8211;50.(a) Formerly Global Investment Management(b) Formerly Global Wealth ManagementDescription of business segment reporting methodology Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment results includes the allocation of certain income and expense items described in more detail below. The Firm also assesses the level of capital required for each line of business on at least an annual basis. For further information about line of business capital, see Line of business equity on page 83.The Firm periodically assesses the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharing When business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, the participating business segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricing Funds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business segment and to transfer the primary interest rate risk and liquidity risk exposures to Treasury and CIO within Corporate. The funds transfer pricing process considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of a business segment as if it were operating independently. This process is overseen by &#160;senior management and reviewed by the Firm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;).Debt expense and preferred stock dividend allocationAs part of the funds transfer pricing process, largely all of the cost of the credit spread component of outstanding unsecured long-term debt and preferred stock dividends is allocated to the reportable business segments, while the balance of the cost is retained in Corporate. The methodology to allocate the cost of unsecured long-term debt and preferred stock dividend to the business segments is aligned with the Firm's process to allocate capital. The allocated cost of unsecured long-term debt is included in a business segment's net interest income, and net income is reduced by preferred stock dividends to arrive at a business segment's net income applicable to common equity. Business segment capital allocation changes The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as common equity. On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital. Through the end of 2016, capital was allocated to the lines of business based on a single measure, Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA. Effective January 1, 2017, the Firm's methodology used to allocate capital to the Firm's business segments was updated.&#160;The new methodology incorporates Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA (as well as Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA), leverage, the GSIB surcharge, and a simulation of Management's discussion and analysiscapital in a severe stress environment. The methodology will continue to be weighted towards Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA because the Firm believes it to be the best proxy for economic risk. The Firm will consider further changes to its capital allocation methodology as the regulatory framework evolves.&#160;In addition, under the new methodology, capital is no longer allocated to each line of business for goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by corporate support units, or another business segment, the costs of those services are allocated to the respective business segments. The expense is generally &#160;allocated&#160;based on actual cost and use of services provided. In contrast, certain other costs related to corporate support units, or to certain technology and operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. Expense retained in Corporate generally includes parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align corporate support units; and other items not aligned with a particular business segment. The following provides a comparative discussion of business segment results as of or for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.Segment Results &#8211; Managed BasisThe following tables summarize the business segment results for the periods indicated.&#160;Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP financial measures. Management's discussion and analysis2016 compared with 2015Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.7 billion, a decrease of 1% compared with the prior year, driven by higher provision for credit losses predominantly offset by higher net revenue.Net revenue was $44.9 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $29.7 billion, up 5%, driven by higher deposit balances and higher loan balances, partially offset by deposit spread compression and an increase in the reserve for uncollectible interest and fees in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $15.3 billion, down 2%, driven by higher new account origination costs and the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements in Credit Card and lower mortgage servicing revenue predominantly as a result of a lower level of third-party loans serviced; these factors were predominantly offset by higher auto lease and card sales volume, higher card- and deposit-related fees, higher MSR risk management results and a gain on the sale of Visa Europe interests. See Note 17 for further information regarding changes in value of the MSR asset and related hedges, and mortgage fees and related income. The provision for credit losses was $4.5 billion, an increase of 47% from the prior year.&#160; The increase in the provision was driven by:Noninterest expense of $24.9 billion was flat compared with the prior year, driven by lower legal expense and branch efficiencies offset by higher auto lease depreciation and higher investment in marketing.&#160;2015 compared with 2014Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.8 billion, an increase of 7% compared with the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $43.8 billion, a decrease of 1% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.2 billion, down 1%, driven by spread compression, predominantly offset by higher deposit balances, higher loan balances largely resulting from originations of high-quality mortgage loans that have been retained, and improved credit quality including lower reversals of interest and fees due to lower net charge-offs in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $15.6 billion, down 2%, driven by lower mortgage servicing revenue largely as a result of lower average third-party loans serviced, lower net mortgage production revenue reflecting a lower repurchase benefit and the impact of renegotiated co-brand partnership agreements in Credit Card, largely offset by higher auto lease and card sales volume, the impact of non-core portfolio exits in Credit Card in the prior year, and a gain on the investment in Square, Inc. upon its initial public offering. The provision for credit losses was $3.1 billion, a decrease of 13% from the prior year, reflecting lower net charge-offs, partially offset by a lower reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The current-year provision reflected a $1.0 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses due to continued improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies as well as increased granularity in the impairment estimates in the residential real estate portfolio and runoff in the student loan portfolio. The prior-year provision reflected a $1.3 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses due to continued improvement in home prices and lower delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio, a decrease in the Credit Card asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in troubled debt restructurings (&#8220;TDRs&#8221;), runoff in the student loan portfolio and lower estimated losses in auto loans.Noninterest expense was $24.9 billion, a decrease of 3% from the prior year, driven by lower headcount-related expense and lower professional fees, partially offset by higher auto lease depreciation.&#160;Management's discussion and analysis&#160;Mortgage servicing-related mattersThe Firm has resolved the majority of the consent orders and settlements into which it entered with federal and state governmental agencies and private parties related to mortgage servicing, origination, and residential mortgage-backed securities activities. However, among those obligations, the mortgage servicing-related Consent Order entered into with the Federal Reserve on April 13, 2011, as amended on February 28, 2013, and certain other settlements remain outstanding. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors provides governance and oversight of the Federal Reserve Consent Order.The Federal Reserve Consent Order and other obligations under certain mortgage-related settlements are the subject of ongoing reporting to various regulators and independent overseers. The Firm's compliance with certain of these settlements is detailed in periodic reports published by the independent overseers. The Firm is committed to fulfilling its commitments with appropriate diligence.Management's discussion and analysis2016 compared with 2015Net income was $10.8 billion, up 34% compared with the prior year, driven by lower noninterest expense and higher net revenue, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses.Banking revenue was $10.8 billion, down 6% compared with the prior year. Investment banking revenue was $6.0 billion, down 7% from the prior year, largely driven by lower equity underwriting fees. The Firm maintained its #1 ranking for Global Investment Banking fees, according to Dealogic. Equity underwriting fees were $1.2 billion, down 19% driven by lower industry-wide fee levels; however, the Firm improved its market share and maintained its #1 ranking in equity underwriting fees globally as well as in both North America and Europe and its #1 ranking by volumes across all products, according to Dealogic. Advisory fees were $2.1 billion, down 1%; the Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, according to Dealogic. Debt underwriting fees were $3.2 billion; the Firm maintained its #1 ranking globally in fees across high grade, high yield, and loan products, according to Dealogic. Treasury Services revenue was $3.6 billion. Lending revenue was $1.2 billion, down 17% from the prior year, reflecting fair value losses on hedges of accrual loans.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $24.4 billion, up 11% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $15.3 billion, up 21% from the prior year, driven by broad strength across products. Rates performance was strong, with increased client activity driven by high issuance-based flows, global political developments, and central bank actions. Credit and Securitized Products revenue improved driven by higher market-making revenue from the secondary market as clients' risk appetite recovered, and due to increased financing activity. Equity Markets revenue was $5.7 billion, up 1%, compared to a strong prior-year. Securities Services revenue was $3.6 billion, down 5% from the prior year, largely driven by lower fees and commissions. Credit Adjustments and Other was a loss of $175 million driven by valuation adjustments, compared with an $11 million gain in prior-year, which included funding spread gains on fair value option elected liabilities.The provision for credit losses was $563 million, compared to $332 million in the prior year, reflecting a higher allowance for credit losses, including the impact of select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Noninterest expense was $19.0 billion, down 11% compared with the prior year, driven by lower legal and compensation expenses.2015 compared with 2014 Net income was $8.1 billion, up 17% compared with $6.9 billion in the prior year. The increase primarily reflected lower income tax expenses largely reflecting the release in 2015 of U.S. deferred taxes associated with the restructuring of certain non-U.S. entities and lower noninterest expense partially offset by lower net revenue, both driven by business simplification, as well as higher provisions for credit losses. Banking revenue was $11.5 billion, up 1% versus the prior year. Investment banking revenue was $6.4 billion, up 4% from the prior year, driven by higher advisory fees, partially offset by lower debt and equity underwriting fees. Advisory fees were $2.1 billion, up 31% on a greater share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in the industry-wide fee levels. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, according to Dealogic. Debt underwriting fees were $3.2 billion, down 6%, primarily related to lower bond underwriting and loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fee levels. The Firm ranked #1 globally in fee share across high grade, high yield and loan products. Equity underwriting fees were $1.4 billion, down 9%, driven by lower industry-wide fee levels. The Firm was #1 in equity underwriting fees in 2015, up from #3 in 2014. Treasury Services revenue was $3.6 billion, down 3% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by lower net interest income. Lending revenue was $1.5 billion, down 6% from the prior year, driven by lower trade finance revenue on lower loan balances.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $22.1 billion, down 5% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $12.6 billion, down 11% from the prior year, primarily driven by the impact of business simplification as well as lower revenue in credit-related products on an industry-wide slowdown, partially offset by increased revenue in Rates and Currencies & Emerging Markets on higher client activity. The lower Fixed Income revenue also reflected higher interest costs on higher long-term debt. Equity Markets revenue was $5.7 billion, up 13%, primarily driven by higher equity derivatives revenue across all regions. Securities Services revenue was $3.8 billion, down 13% from the prior year, driven by lower fees as well as lower net interest income. The provision for credit losses was $332 million, compared to a benefit of $161 million in the prior year, reflecting a higher allowance for credit losses, including the impact of select downgrades within the Oil & Gas portfolio.Noninterest expense was $21.4 billion, down 8% compared with the prior year, driven by the impact of business simplification as well as lower legal and compensation expenses.Management's discussion and analysis&#32;(a) Includes loans syndicationMarkets RevenueThe following table summarizes select income statement data for the Markets businesses. Markets includes both Fixed Income Markets and Equity Markets. Markets revenue comprises principal transactions, fees, commissions and other income, as well as net interest income. For a description of the composition of these income statement line items, see Notes 7 and 8. Principal transactions reflects revenue on financial instruments and commodities transactions that arise from client-driven market making activity.&#160;Principal transactions revenue includes amounts recognized upon executing new transactions with market participants, as well as &#8220;inventory-related revenue&#8221;, which is&#160;revenue recognized from gains and losses on derivatives and other instruments that the Firm has been holding in anticipation of, or in response to, client demand,&#160;and changes in the fair value of instruments used by the Firm to actively manage the risk exposure arising from such inventory. Principal transactions revenue recognized upon executing new transactions with market participants is driven by many factors including the level of client activity, the bid-offer spread (which is the difference between the price at which a market participant is willing to sell an instrument to the Firm&#160;and the price at which another market participant is willing to buy it from the Firm, and vice versa), market liquidity and volatility.&#160;These factors are interrelated and&#160;sensitive to the same factors that drive inventory-related revenue, which include general market conditions, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices,&#160;as well as other macroeconomic conditions.&#160; For the periods presented below, the predominant source of principal transactions revenue was the amounts recognized upon executing new transactions.Management's discussion and analysis&#160;2016&#32;compared with 2015Net income was $2.7 billion, an increase of 21% compared with the prior year, driven by higher net revenue and a lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $7.5 billion, an increase of 8% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $5.1 billion, an increase of 14% compared with the prior year, driven by higher loan balances and deposit spreads. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, a decrease of 2% compared with the prior year, largely driven by lower lending-and-deposit-related fees and other revenue, partially offset by higher investment banking revenue. Noninterest expense was $2.9 billion, an increase of 2% compared with the prior year, reflecting increased hiring of bankers and business-related support staff and investments in technology.The provision for credit losses was $282 million and $442 million for 2016 and 2015, respectively, with both periods driven by downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio and select client downgrades in other industries. 2015&#32;compared with 2014Net income was $2.2 billion, a decrease of 17% compared with the prior year, driven by a higher provision for credit losses and higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $6.9 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, flat compared with the prior year, with interest income from higher loan balances offset by spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $2.4 billion, flat compared with the prior year, with higher investment banking revenue offset by lower lending-related fees.Noninterest expense was $2.9 billion, an increase of 7% compared with the prior year, reflecting investment in controls.The provision for credit losses was $442 million, reflecting an increase in the allowance for credit losses for Oil & Gas exposure and select client downgrades in other industries. The prior year was a benefit of $189 million.Management's discussion and analysis&#160;&#160;Management's discussion and analysis&#160;2016&#32;compared with 2015&#32;Net income was $2.3 billion, an increase of 16% compared with the prior year, reflecting lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $12.0 billion, a decrease of 1%. Net interest income was $3.0 billion, up 19%, driven by higher deposit and loan spreads and loan growth. Noninterest revenue was $9.0 billion, a decrease of 6%, reflecting the impact of lower average equity market levels, a reduction in revenue related to the disposal of assets at the beginning of 2016, and lower performance fees and placement fees.Revenue from Asset Management was $6.0 billion, down 5% from the prior year, driven by a reduction in revenue related to the disposal of assets at the beginning of 2016, the impact of lower average equity market levels and lower performance fees. Revenue from Wealth Management was $6.1 billion, up 4% from the prior year, reflecting higher net interest income from higher deposit and loan spreads and continued loan growth, partially offset by the impact of lower average equity market levels and lower placement fees.Noninterest expense was $8.5 billion, a decrease of 5%, predominantly due to a reduction in expense related to the disposal of assets at the beginning of 2016 and lower legal expense.2015&#32;compared with 2014Net income was $1.9 billion, a decrease of 10% compared with the prior year, reflecting higher noninterest expense, predominantly offset by higher net revenue.Net revenue was $12.1 billion, an increase of 1%. Net interest income was $2.6 billion, up 5%, driven by higher loan balances and spreads. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 billion, flat from last year, as net client inflows into assets under management and the impact of higher average market levels were predominantly offset by lower performance fees and the sale of Retirement Plan Services (&#8220;RPS&#8221;) in 2014.Revenue from Asset Management was $6.3 billion, flat from the prior year as the sale of RPS in 2014 and lower performance fees were largely offset by net client inflows. Revenue from Wealth Management was $5.8 billion, up 2% from the prior year due to higher net interest income from higher loan balances and spreads and net client inflows, partially offset by lower brokerage revenue.Noninterest expense was $8.9 billion, an increase of 4%, predominantly due to higher legal expense and investment in both infrastructure and controls.&#160;Management's discussion and analysisClient assets2016&#32;compared with 2015Client assets were $2.5 trillion, an increase of 4% compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.8 trillion, an increase of 3% from the prior year reflecting inflows into both liquidity and long-term products and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by asset sales at the beginning of 2016.2015&#32;compared with 2014Client assets were $2.4 trillion, a decrease of 2% compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.7 trillion, a decrease of 1% from the prior year reflecting the effect of lower market levels, partially offset by net inflows to long-term products.&#160;&#160;2016&#32;compared with 2015&#32;Net loss was $704 million, compared with net income of $2.4 billion in the prior year.Net revenue was a loss of $487 million, compared with a gain of $267 million in the prior year. The prior year included a $514 million benefit from a legal settlement.Net interest income was a loss of $1.4 billion, compared with a loss of $533 million in the prior year. The loss in the current year was primarily driven by higher interest expense on long-term debt and lower investment securities balances during the year, partially offset by higher interest income on deposits with banks and securities purchased under resale agreements as a result of higher rates. Noninterest expense was $462 million, a decrease of $515 million from the prior year driven by lower legal expense, partially offset by higher compensation expense. The prior year reflected tax benefits of $2.6 billion predominantly from the resolution of various tax audits. 2015&#32;compared with 2014Net income was $2.4 billion, compared with net income of $864 million in the prior year.Net revenue was $267 million, compared with $12 million in the prior year. The current year included a $514 million benefit from a legal settlement. Treasury and CIO included a benefit of approximately $178 million associated with recognizing the unamortized discount on certain debt securities which were called at par and a $173 million pretax loss primarily related to accelerated amortization of cash flow hedges associated with the exit of certain non-operating deposits. Private Equity gains were $1.2 billion lower compared with the prior year, reflecting lower valuation gains and lower net gains on sales as the Firm exits this non-core business. Noninterest expense was $977 million, a decrease of $182 million from the prior year which had included a $276 million goodwill impairment related to the sale of a portion of the Private Equity business. The current year reflected tax benefits of $2.6 billion predominantly from the resolution of various tax audits compared with tax benefits of $1.1 billion in the prior year. Management's discussion and analysisTreasury and&#32;CIO&#32;overview&#32;Treasury and CIO are predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks,&#32;as well as executing the Firm's capital plan. The risks managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the activities undertaken by the Firm's four major reportable business segments to serve their respective client bases, which generate both on- and off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.Treasury and CIO achieve the Firm's asset-liability management objectives generally by investing in high-quality securities that are managed for the longer-term as part of the Firm's investment securities portfolio. Treasury and CIO also use derivatives to meet the Firm's asset-liability management objectives. For further information on derivatives, see Note 6. The investment securities portfolio primarily consists of U.S. and non-U.S. government securities, agency and nonagency mortgage-backed securities, other ABS, corporate debt securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities. At December&#160;31, 2016, the investment securities portfolio was $286.8 billion, and the average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio was AA+&#32;(based upon external ratings where available and where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's). During 2016, the Firm transferred commercial mortgage-backed securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities with a fair value of $7.5 billion from available-for-sale (&#8220;AFS&#8221;) to held-to maturity (&#8220;HTM&#8221;). These securities were transferred at fair value. The transfers reflect the Firm's intent to hold the securities to maturity in order to reduce the impact of price volatility on accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;).See Note 12 for further information on the details of the Firm's investment securities portfolio.For further information on liquidity and funding risk, see Liquidity Risk Management on&#32;pages 110&#8211;115. For information on interest rate, foreign exchange and other risks, Treasury and CIO VaR and the Firm's earnings-at-risk, see Market Risk Management on&#32;pages 116&#8211;123.&#160;Private equity portfolio information(a)&#160;2016&#32;compared with 2015&#32;The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;was $1.8 billion, down from $2.1 billion at December&#160;31, 2015, driven by portfolio sales.2015&#32;compared with 2014The carrying value of the private equity portfolio atDecember&#160;31, 2015&#32;was $2.1 billion, down from $5.9billion at December&#160;31, 2014, driven by the sale of aportion of the Private Equity business and porfolio sales.Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale&#32;loan, advises customers on their investment decisions, makes markets in securities, or offers other products or services, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm's overall objective is to manage its businesses, and the associated risks, in a manner that balances serving the interests of its clients, customers and investors and protects the safety and soundness of the Firm.&#32;Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an enterprise-wide basis. The Firm's approach to risk management covers a broad spectrum of economic and other core risk areas, such as credit, market, liquidity, model, principal, country, operational, compliance, conduct, legal, capital and reputation risk, with controls and governance established for each area, as appropriate.&#32;The Firm believes that effective risk management requires:&#32;The Firm's Operating Committee, which consists of the Firm's Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;), Chief Risk Officer (&#8220;CRO&#8221;), Chief Operating Officer (&#8220;COO&#8221;), Chief Financial Officer (&#8220;CFO&#8221;) and other senior executives, is the ultimate management escalation point in the Firm, and may refer matters to the Firm's Board of Directors. The Operating Committee is responsible and accountable to the Firm's Board of Directors.&#32;&#160;The Firm strives for continual improvement through efforts to enhance controls, ongoing employee training and development, talent retention, and other measures. The Firm follows a disciplined and balanced compensation framework with strong internal governance and independent Board oversight.&#160;The impact of risk and control issues are carefully considered in the Firm's performance evaluation and incentive compensation processes.Management's discussion and analysisThe following sections outline the key risks that are inherent in the Firm's business activities:Governance and oversightThe Firm's overall appetite for risk is governed by a &#8220;Risk Appetite&#8221; framework. The framework and the Firm's risk appetite are set and approved by the Firm's CEO, CFO, CRO and COO. LOB-level risk appetite is set by the respective LOB CEO, CFO and CRO and is approved by the Firm's CEO, CFO, CRO and COO. Quantitative parameters and qualitative factors are used to monitor and measure the Firm's capacity to take risk against stated risk appetite. Quantitative parameters have been established to assess stressed net income, capital, credit risk, market risk, structural interest rate risk and liquidity risk. Qualitative factors have been established for select risks. Risk Appetite results are reported quarterly to the Board of Directors' Risk Policy Committee (&#8220;DRPC&#8221;).&#32;The Firm's CRO is the head of the Independent Risk Management (&#8220;IRM&#8221;) function and reports to the CEO and the DRPC. The CEO appoints the CRO to create the Risk Management Framework subject to approval by the DRPC in the form of the Primary Risk Policies. The Chief Compliance Officer (&#8220;CCO&#8221;), who reports to the CRO, is also responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee for the Global Compliance Program. The Firm's Global Compliance Program focuses on overseeing compliance with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Firm's products and services to clients and counterparties.&#32;The IRM function, comprised of Risk Management and Compliance Organizations, is independent of the businesses. The IRM function sets various standards for the risk management governance framework, including risk policy, identification, measurement, assessment, testing, limit setting (e.g., risk appetite, thresholds, etc.), monitoring and reporting. Various groups within the IRM function are aligned to the LOBs and to corporate functions, regions and core areas of risk such as credit, market, country and liquidity risks, as well as operational, model and reputational risk governance. The Firm places key reliance on each of its LOBs and other functional areas giving rise to risk. Each LOB or other functional area giving rise to risk is expected to operate its activities within the parameters identified by the IRM function, and within their own management-identified risk and control standards. Because these LOBs and functional areas are accountable for identifying and addressing the risks in their respective businesses and for operating within a sound control environment, they are considered the &#8220;first line of defense&#8221; within the Firm's risk governance framework. &#160;The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group consists of dedicated control officers within each of the lines of business and corporate functions, as well as having a central oversight function. The group is charged with enhancing the Firm's control environment by looking within and across the lines of business and&#160;corporate functions to help identify and remediate control issues. The group enables the Firm to detect control problems more quickly, escalate issues promptly and engage other stakeholders to understand common themes and interdependencies among the various parts of the Firm.&#32;As the &#8220;second line of defense&#8221;, the IRM function provides oversight and independent challenge, consistent with its policies and framework, to the risk-creating LOBs and functional areas.&#32;Internal Audit, a function independent of the businesses&#32;and the IRM function, tests and evaluates the Firm's risk governance and management, as well as its internal control processes. This function, the &#8220;third line of defense&#8221; in the risk governance framework, brings a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of the Firm's governance, risk management and internal control processes. The Internal Audit Function is headed by the General Auditor, who reports to the Audit Committee.&#32;The independent status of the IRM function is supported by a governance structure that provides for escalation of risk issues to senior management, the Firmwide Risk Committee, or the Board of Directors. Management's discussion and analysisThe chart below illustrates the key senior management level committees in the Firm's risk governance structure. Other committees, forums and paths of escalation are in place that are responsible for management and oversight of risk, although they are not shown in the chart below. &#160;The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk principally through the DRPC, Audit Committee and, with respect to compensation and other management-related matters, the Compensation & Management Development Committee. Each committee of the Board oversees reputation risk issues within its scope of responsibility.The Directors' Risk Policy Committee of the Board oversees the Firm's global risk management framework and approves the primary risk management policies of the Firm. The Committee's responsibilities include oversight of management's exercise of its responsibility to assess and manage the Firm's risks, and its capital and liquidity planning and analysis.&#160;Breaches in risk appetite, liquidity issues that may have a material adverse impact on the Firm and other significant risk-related matters are escalated to the Committee.The Audit Committee of the Board assists the Board in its oversight of management's responsibilities to assure that there is an effective system of controls reasonably designed to safeguard the assets and income of the Firm, assure the integrity of the Firm's financial statements and maintain compliance with the Firm's ethical standards, policies, plans and procedures, and with laws and regulations.&#160;In addition, the Audit Committee assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm's independent registered public accounting firm's qualifications, independence and performance, and of the performance of the Firm's Internal Audit function.&#160;The Compensation & Management Development Committee&#32;(&#8220;CMDC&#8221;) assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm's compensation programs and reviews and approves the Firm's overall compensation philosophy, incentive compensation pools, and compensation practices consistent with key business objectives and safety and soundness. The Committee reviews Operating Committee members' performance against their goals, and approves their compensation awards. The Committee also periodically reviews the Firm's diversity programs and management development and succession planning, and provides oversight of the Firm's culture and conduct programs.Among the Firm's senior management-level committees that are primarily responsible for key risk-related functions are:The Firmwide Risk Committee (&#8220;FRC&#8221;)&#32;is the Firm's highest management-level risk committee. It provides oversight of the risks inherent in the Firm's businesses. The Committee is co-chaired by the Firm's CEO and CRO. This Committee serves as an escalation point for risk topics and issues raised by its members, the Line of Business Risk Committees, Firmwide Control Committee, Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee, and regional Risk Committees, as appropriate. The Committee escalates significant issues to the DRPC, as appropriate.The Firmwide Control Committee (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) provides a forum for senior management to review and discuss firmwide operational risks including existing and emerging issues, and operational risk metrics, and to review operational risk management execution in the context&#32;of the Operational Risk Management Framework (&#8220;ORMF&#8221;) which provides the framework for the governance, assessment, measurement, and monitoring and reporting of operational risk.&#32;The FCC is co-chaired by the Chief Control Officer and the Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance. The committee relies upon the prompt escalation of issues from businesses and functions as the primary owners of the operational risk. Operational risk issues may be escalated by business or function control committees to the FCC, which may, in turn, escalate to the FRC, as appropriate.The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Governance Committee&#32;is a forum for risk matters related to the Firm's fiduciary activities. The Committee oversees the firmwide fiduciary risk governance framework, which supports the consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk issues by the relevant lines of business; establishes policies and best practices to effectuate the Committee's oversight responsibility; and creates metrics reporting to track fiduciary activity and issue resolution Firmwide. The Committee escalates significant fiduciary&#32;issues to the FRC,&#32;the DRPC and the Audit Committee, as appropriate.Line of Business and Regional Risk Committees review the ways in which the particular line of business or the business operating in a particular region could be exposed to adverse outcomes with a focus on identifying, accepting, escalating and/or requiring remediation of matters brought to these committees. These committees may escalate to the FRC, as appropriate. LOB risk committees are co-chaired by the LOB CEO and the LOB CRO. Each LOB risk committee may create sub-committees with requirements for escalation. The regional committees are established similarly, as appropriate, for the region.In addition, each line of business and function is required to have a Control Committee.&#32;These control committees oversee the control environment of their respective business or function. As part of that mandate, they are responsible for reviewing data which indicates the quality and stability of the processes in a business or function, reviewing key operational risk issues and focusing on processes with shortcomings and overseeing process remediation. These committees escalate to the FCC, as appropriate.The Firmwide Asset Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;), chaired by the Firm's Treasurer and Chief Investment Officer under the direction of the COO, monitors the Firm's balance sheet, liquidity risk and structural interest rate risk. ALCO reviews the Firm's overall structural interest rate risk position, &#160;funding requirements and strategy, and securitization programs (and any required liquidity support by the Firm of such programs). ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving the Firm's Funds Transfer Pricing Policy (through which lines of business &#8220;transfer&#8221; interest rate risk to Treasury and CIO) and the Firm's Intercompany Funding and Liquidity Policy. ALCO is also responsible for reviewing the Firm's Contingency Funding Plan.The Firmwide Capital Governance Committee,&#32;chaired by the Head of the Regulatory Capital Management Office is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Capital Management Policy and the principles underlying capital issuance and distribution alternatives&#32;and decisions. The Committee oversees&#32;the capital adequacy assessment process, including the overall design, scenario development and macro assumptions and ensures that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the risks specific to the Firm's businesses.The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (&#8220;VGF&#8221;) is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the firmwide head of the Valuation Control Group (&#8220;VCG&#8221;) (under the direction of the Firm's Controller), and includes sub-forums covering the Corporate & Investment Bank, Consumer & Community Banking, Commercial Banking, Asset & Wealth Management and certain corporate functions, including Treasury and CIO.In addition, the JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of management of the Bank. The JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Board accomplishes this function acting directly and through the principal standing committees of the Firm's Board of Directors. Risk oversight on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. is primarily the responsibility of the DRPC and Audit Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors and, with respect to compensation and other management-related matters, the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors.Risk measurementThe Firm has a broad spectrum of risk management metrics, as appropriate for each risk category. For further information on risk management metrics, see table on key risks on page 72. Additionally, the Firm is exposed to certain potential low-probability, but plausible and material, idiosyncratic risks that are not well-captured by its other existing risk analysis and reporting metrics. These idiosyncratic risks may arise in a number of ways, such as changes in legislation, an unusual combination of market events, or specific counterparty events. The Firm has a process intended to identify these risks in order to allow the Firm to monitor vulnerabilities that are not adequately covered by its other standard risk measurements.Management's discussion and analysisCapital risk is the risk the Firm has an insufficient level and composition of capital to support its business activities and associated risks during both normal economic environments and under stressed conditions.A strong capital position is essential to the Firm's business strategy and competitive position.&#32;Maintaining a strong balance sheet to manage through economic volatility is considered a strategic imperative of the Firm's Board of Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The Firm's balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted returns, strong capital and robust liquidity.&#32;The Firm's capital management strategy focuses on maintaining long-term stability to enable it to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment.&#32;Prior to making any decisions on future business activities, senior management considers the implications on the Firm's capital. In addition to considering the Firm's earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all sources and uses of capital with a view to preserving the Firm's capital strength. The Firm's capital management objectives are to hold capital sufficient to:&#160;These objectives are achieved through the establishment of minimum capital targets and a strong capital governance framework. Capital management is intended to be flexible in order to react to a range of potential events. The Firm's minimum capital targets are based on the most binding of three pillars: an internal assessment of the Firm's capital needs; an estimate of required capital under the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act stress testing requirements; and Basel III Fully Phased-In regulatory minimums. Where necessary, each pillar may include a management-established buffer. The capital governance framework requires regular monitoring of the Firm's capital positions, stress testing and defining escalation protocols, both at the Firm and material legal entity levels.The following tables present the Firm's Transitional and Fully Phased-In risk-based and leverage-based capital metrics under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches. The Firm's Basel III ratios exceed both the current and Fully Phased-In regulatory minimums as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. For further discussion of these capital metrics and the Standardized and Advanced approaches, refer to Monitoring and management of capital on pages 78&#8211;82. Note: As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the lower of the Standardized or Advanced capital ratios under each of the Transitional and Fully Phased-In approaches in the table above represents the Firm's Collins Floor, as discussed in Monitoring and management of Capital on page 78. capital ratio includes 0.625% resulting from the phase-in of the Firm's 2.5% capital conservation buffer and 1.125%, resulting from the phase-in of the Firm's 4.5%global systemically important banks (&#8220;GSIB&#8221;) surcharge.Management's discussion and analysisStrategy and governanceThe Firm's CEO, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, establishes principles and guidelines for capital planning, issuance, usage and distributions, and minimum capital targets for the level and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and highly stressed environments. The DRPC assesses and approves the capital management and governance processes of the Firm. The Firm's Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and approving the capital stress testing end-to-end control framework.The Capital Governance Committee and the Regulatory Capital Management Office (&#8220;RCMO&#8221;) support the Firm's strategic capital decision-making. The Capital Governance Committee oversees&#32;the capital adequacy assessment process, including the overall design, scenario development and macro assumptions and ensures that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the risks specific to the Firm's businesses. RCMO, which reports to the Firm's CFO, is responsible for designing and monitoring the Firm's execution of its capital policies and strategies once approved by the Board, as well as reviewing and monitoring the execution of its capital adequacy assessment process. The Basel Independent Review function (&#8220;BIR&#8221;), which reports to the RCMO and has direct access to both the DRPC and Capital Governance Committee, conducts independent assessments of the Firm's regulatory capital framework to ensure compliance with the applicable U.S. Basel rules in support of senior management's responsibility for assessing and managing capital and for the DRPC's oversight of management in executing that responsibility. For additional discussion on the DRPC, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 71&#8211;75.Monitoring and management of capital In its monitoring and management of capital, the Firm takes into consideration an assessment of economic risk and all regulatory capital requirements to determine the level of capital needed to meet and maintain the objectives discussed above, as well as to support the framework for allocating capital to its business segments.&#160;While economic risk is considered prior to making decisions on future business activities, in most cases, the Firm considers risk-based regulatory capital to be a proxy for economic risk capital.Regulatory capital The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar minimum capital requirements for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A. The U.S. capital requirements generally follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, as amended from time to time.&#32;&#160;Basel III overviewCapital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its insured depository institution (&#8220;IDI&#8221;) subsidiaries. Basel III presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA: a general (standardized) approach (&#8220;Basel III Standardized&#8221;), and an advanced approach (&#8220;Basel III Advanced&#8221;). Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 (&#8220;transitional period&#8221;).&#32;Basel III establishes capital requirements for calculating credit risk and market risk RWA, and in the case of Basel III Advanced, operational risk RWA. Key differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced. In addition to the RWA calculated under these methodologies, the Firm may supplement such amounts to incorporate management judgment and feedback from its bank regulators.&#32;Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate&#32;SLR. For additional information on SLR, see page 82.Basel III Fully Phased-InBasel III capital rules will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, at which point the Firm will continue to calculate its capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches. The Firm manages each of the businesses, as well as the corporate functions, primarily on a Basel III Fully Phased-In basis. For additional information on the Firm, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s capital, RWA and capital ratios under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In rules and SLRs calculated under the Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In rules, all of which are considered key regulatory capital measures, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures on pages 48&#8211;50.The Firm's estimates of its Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In capital, RWA and capital ratios and SLRs for the Firm, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. are based on the current published U.S. Basel III rules and on the application of such rules to the Firm's businesses as currently conducted. The actual impact on the Firm's capital ratios and SLR as of the &#160;effective date of the rules may differ from the Firm's current estimates depending on changes the Firm may make to its businesses in the future, further implementation guidance from the regulators, and regulatory approval of certain of the Firm's internal risk models (or, alternatively, regulatory disapproval of the Firm's internal risk models&#160;that have previously been conditionally approved).Risk-based capital regulatory minimumsThe following chart presents the Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the transitional periods and on a fully phased-in basis under the Basel III rules currently in effect. The Basel III rules include minimum capital ratio requirements that are subject to phase-in periods through the end of 2018.&#32;The capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries, both during the transitional period and upon full-phase in, is evaluated against the Basel III approach (Standardized or Advanced) which results for each quarter in the lower ratio as required by the Collins Amendment&#32;of the Dodd-Frank Act&#32;(the &#8220;Collins Floor&#8221;). Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios, as well as the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which the Firm is subject, is presented in Note 28. For further information on the Firm's Basel III measures, see the Firm's Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).All banking institutions are currently required to have a minimum capital ratio of 4.5% of CET1 capital. Certain banking organizations, including the Firm, are required to hold additional amounts of capital to serve as a &#8220;capital conservation buffer&#8221;. The capital conservation buffer is intended to be used to absorb potential losses in times of financial or economic stress. If not maintained,&#32;the Firm could be limited in the amount of capital that may be &#160;distributed, including dividends and common equity repurchases. The capital conservation buffer is subject to a phase-in period that began January 1, 2016 and continues through the end of 2018.&#32;As an expansion of the capital conservation buffer, the Firm is also required to hold additional levels of capital in the form of a GSIB surcharge and a countercyclical capital buffer. Under the Federal Reserve's final rule, GSIBs, including the Firm, are required to calculate their GSIB surcharge on an annual basis under two separately prescribed methods, and are subject to the higher of the two. The first (&#8220;Method 1&#8221;), reflects the GSIB surcharge as prescribed by the Basel Committee's assessment methodology, and is calculated across five criteria: size, cross-jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness, complexity and substitutability. The second (&#8220;Method 2&#8221;), modifies the Method 1 requirements to include a measure of short-term wholesale funding in place of substitutability, and introduces a GSIB score &#8220;multiplication factor&#8221;. Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm's Fully Phased-In GSIB surcharge for 2016 was calculated to be 2.5% under Method 1 and 4.5% under Method 2. Accordingly, the Firm's minimum capital ratios applicable in 2016 include a GSIB surcharge of 1.125%, resulting from the application of the transition provisions to the 4.5% fully phased-in GSIB surcharge. For 2017, the Firm has calculated its Fully Phased-In GSIB surcharge to be 2.5% under Method 1 and 3.5% under Method 2 resulting in the inclusion of a GSIB surcharge of 1.75% in the Firm's minimum capital ratios after application of the transition provisions.The countercyclical capital buffer takes into account the macro financial environment in which large, internationally active banks function. On September 8, 2016 the Federal Reserve published the framework that will apply to the setting of the countercyclical capital buffer. As of October 24, 2016 the Federal Reserve reaffirmed setting the U.S. countercyclical capital buffer at 0%, and stated that it will review the amount at least annually. The countercyclical capital buffer can be increased if the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC determine that credit growth in the economy has become excessive and can be set at up to an additional 2.5% of RWA subject to a 12-month implementation period.&#32;Based on the Firm's most recent estimate of its GSIB surcharge and the current countercyclical buffer being set at 0%, the Firm estimates its Fully Phased-In CET1 capital requirement, at January 1, 2019, would be 10.5% (reflecting the 4.5% CET1 capital requirement, the Fully Phased-In 2.5% capital conservation buffer and the GSIB surcharge of 3.5%). As well as meeting the capital ratio requirements of Basel III, the Firm must, in order to be &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221;, maintain a minimum 6% Tier 1 capital and a 10% Total capital requirement. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, JPMorgan Chase maintained Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional ratios in excess of the well-capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve.The Firm continues to believe that over the next several years, it will operate with a Basel III CET1 capital ratio between 11% and 12.5%. It is the Firm's intention that the Firm's capital ratios continue to meet regulatory minimums as they are fully implemented in 2019 and thereafter. Each of the Firm's IDI subsidiaries must maintain a minimum 6.5% CET1, 8% Tier 1 capital, 10% Total capital and 5% Tier 1 leverage requirement to meet the definition of &#8220;well-capitalized&#8221; under the Prompt Corrective Action (&#8220;PCA&#8221;) requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;)&#32;for IDI subsidiaries.&#160;CapitalA reconciliation of total stockholders' equity to Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Basel III Advanced and Standardized Fully Phased-In Total capital is presented in the table below. For additional information on the components of regulatory capital, see Note 28.The following table presents a reconciliation of the Firm's Basel III Transitional CET1 capital to the Firm's estimated Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital as of December&#160;31, 2016.&#160;Capital rollforwardThe following table presents the changes in Basel III Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016.Management's discussion and analysisRWA rollforwardThe following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Standardized and Advanced Fully Phased-In for the year ended December 31, 2016. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the change.Supplementary leverage ratio The SLR is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by&#32;the Firm's total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is calculated by taking&#32;the Firm's total average on-balance sheet assets, less amounts permitted to be deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivatives potential future exposure.&#32;U.S. bank holding companies, including the Firm, are required to have a minimum SLR of 5% and IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A., are required to have a minimum SLR of 6%, both beginning January 1, 2018.&#32;As of December 31, 2016, the Firm estimates that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s Fully Phased-In SLRs are approximately 6.6% and 9.6%, respectively. &#160;The following table presents the components of the Firm's Fully Phased-In SLR as of December 31, 2016.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital to its business segments (line of business equity) is based on the following objectives:Each business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons and regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In). For 2016, capital was allocated to each business segment for, among other things, goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as key measures of a business segment's performance.On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital. Through the end of 2016, capital was allocated to the lines of business based on a single measure, Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA. Effective January 1, 2017, the Firm's methodology used to allocate capital to the Firm's business segments was updated.&#160;The new methodology incorporates Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA (as well as Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA), leverage, the GSIB surcharge, and a simulation of capital in a severe stress environment. The methodology will continue to be weighted towards Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In RWA because the Firm believes it to be the best proxy for economic risk. The Firm will consider further changes to its capital allocation methodology as the regulatory framework evolves.&#160;In addition, under the new methodology, capital is no longer allocated to each line of business for goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. The Firm will continue to establish internal ROE targets for its business segments, against which they will be measured, as a key performance indicator.&#160;The table below reflects the Firm's assessed level of capital required for each line of business as of the dates indicated. Planning and stress testingComprehensive Capital Analysis and ReviewThe Federal Reserve requires large bank holding companies, including the Firm, to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act stress test processes to ensure that large BHCs have sufficient capital during periods of economic and financial stress, and have robust, forward-looking capital assessment and planning processes in place that address each BHC's unique risks to enable them to absorb losses under certain stress scenarios.&#32;Through the CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates each BHC's capital adequacy and internal capital adequacy assessment processes (&#8220;ICAAP&#8221;), as well as its plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.&#32;On June 29, 2016, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm that it did not object, on either a quantitative or qualitative basis, to the Firm's 2016 capital plan. For information on actions taken by the Firm's Board of Directors following the 2016 CCAR results, see Capital actions on page 84.The Firm's CCAR process is integrated into and employs the same methodologies utilized in the Firm's ICAAP process, as discussed below.Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Semiannually, the Firm completes the ICAAP, which provides management with a view of the impact of severe and unexpected events on earnings, balance sheet positions, reserves and capital. The Firm's ICAAP integrates stress testing protocols with capital planning.&#32;The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on the Firm's earnings and capital. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly across the businesses. These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, which are key drivers of business results; global market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading losses; and idiosyncratic operational risk events. The scenarios are intended to capture and stress key vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks facing the Firm. However, when defining a broad range of scenarios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, Management's discussion and analysismanagement considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. ICAAP results are reviewed by management and the Board of Directors.&#32;Capital actionsDividends The Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desired dividend payout ratio, capital objectives, and alternative investment opportunities.On May 17, 2016, the Firm announced that its Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.48 per share, effective with the dividend paid on July 31, 2016. The Firm's dividends are subject to the Board of Directors' approval at the customary times those dividends are to be declared.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 22 and Note 27.The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on net income applicable to common equity.Common equity During the year ended December 31, 2016, warrant holders exercised their right to purchase 22.5 million shares of the Firm's common stock. The Firm issued from treasury stock 11.1 million shares of its common stock as a result of these exercises. As of December 31, 2016, 24.9 million warrants remained outstanding, compared with 47.4 million outstanding as of December 31, 2015.On March&#160;17, 2016, the Firm announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $1.9 billion of common equity (common stock and warrants) through June 30, 2016 under its equity repurchase program. This amount is in addition to the $6.4 billion&#32;of common equity that was previously authorized for repurchase between April 1, 2015 and June 30, 2016.Following receipt in June 2016 of the Federal Reserve's non-objection to the Firm's 2016 capital plan, the Firm's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $10.6 billion of common equity (common stock and warrants) between July 1, 2016 and June 30, 2017. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's equity-based compensation plans.As of December&#160;31, 2016, $6.1 billion&#32;of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the program. &#160;The following table sets forth the Firm's repurchases of common equity for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014. There were no warrants repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity &#8212; for example, during internal trading blackout periods. All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at management's discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilize Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities on page 22.Preferred stock&#32;Preferred stock dividends declared were $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016. For additional information on the Firm's preferred stock, see Note 22.Redemption of outstanding trust preferred securities &#32;The Firm redeemed $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion of trust preferred securities in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other capital requirements TLACOn December 15, 2016, the Federal Reserve issued its final TLAC rule which requires the top-tier holding companies of eight U.S. global systemically important bank holding companies, including the Firm, among other things, to maintain minimum levels of external TLAC and external long-term debt that satisfies certain eligibility criteria (&#8220;eligible LTD&#8221;) by January 1, 2019. The minimum external TLAC requirement is the greater of (A) 18% of the financial institution's RWA plus applicable buffers, including its GSIB surcharge as calculated under Method 1 and (B) 7.5% of its total leverage exposure plus a buffer equal to 2.0%. The required minimum level of eligible long-term debt is equal to the greater of (A) 6% of the financial institution's RWA, plus its U.S. Method 2 GSIB surcharge and (B) 4.5% of the Firm's total leverage exposure. The final rule permanently grandfathered all long-term debt issued before December 31, 2016, to the extent these securities would be ineligible only due to containing impermissible acceleration rights or being governed by foreign law. While the Firm may have to raise long-term debt to be in full compliance with the rule, management estimates the net amount to be raised is not material and the timing for raising such funds is manageable. &#160;Broker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary is JPMorgan Securities. Prior to October 1, 2016 the Firm had two principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. Effective October 1, 2016 JPMorgan Clearing merged with JPMorgan Securities. JPMorgan Securities is the surviving entity in the merger and its name remain unchanged. JPMorgan Securities is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Net Capital Rule&#8221;). JPMorgan Securities is also registered as futures commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the CFTC.JPMorgan Securities has elected to compute its minimum net capital requirements in accordance with the &#8220;Alternative Net Capital Requirements&#8221; of the Net Capital Rule. At December 31, 2016, JPMorgan&#160;Securities' net capital, as defined by the Net Capital Rule, was $14.7 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $11.9 billion. In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify the SEC in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0&#160;billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 31, 2016, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#160;and is the Firm's principal operating subsidiary in&#160;the U.K. It has authority to engage in banking,&#160;investment banking and broker-dealer activities. J.P.&#160;Morgan&#160;Securities&#160;plc is jointly regulated by the U.K. PRA and the FCA. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is subject to the European Union Capital Requirements Regulation and the U.K. PRA capital rules, under which it has implemented Basel III.At December 31, 2016, J.P. Morgan Securities plc had estimated total capital of $34.5 billion, its estimated CET1 capital ratio was 13.8% and its estimated total capital ratio was 17.4%. Both ratios exceeded the minimum standards of 4.5% and 8.0%, respectively, under the transitional requirements of the European Union's (&#8220;EU&#8221;) Basel III Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation, as well as the additional capital requirements specified by the PRA.Management's discussion and analysisCredit risk is the risk of loss arising from the default of a customer, client or counterparty. The Firm provides credit to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers and small businesses.&#32;In its consumer businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk primarily through its mortgage banking, credit card, auto, business banking and student lending businesses. Originated mortgage loans are retained in the mortgage portfolio, securitized or sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises; other types of consumer loans are typically retained on the balance sheet. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk through its underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through its operating services activities (such as cash management and clearing activities), securities financing activities, investment securities portfolio, and cash placed with banks. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses are generally retained on the balance sheet; the Firm's syndicated loan business distributes a significant percentage of originations into the market and is an important component of portfolio management.Credit risk managementCredit risk management is an independent risk management function that monitors and measures credit risk throughout the Firm and defines credit risk policies and procedures. The credit risk function reports to the Firm's CRO. The Firm's credit risk management governance includes the following activities:Risk identification and measurementThe Credit Risk Management function measures, limits, manages and monitors credit risk across the Firm's businesses. To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and borrower's credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the &#160;probability of default of an obligor or counterparty, the loss severity given a default event and the exposure at default.Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates credit losses for its exposures. Probable credit losses inherent in the consumer and wholesale held-for-investment loan portfolios are reflected in the allowance for loan losses, and probable credit losses inherent in lending-related commitments are reflected in the allowance for lending-related commitments. These losses are estimated using statistical analyses and other factors as described in Note 15. In addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital and represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the established allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments. The analyses for these losses include stress testing that considers alternative economic scenarios as described in the Stress testing section below. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates used by the Firm on pages 132&#8211;134.The methodologies used to estimate credit losses depend on the characteristics of the credit exposure, as described below.Scored exposureThe scored portfolio is generally held in CCB and predominantly includes residential real estate loans, credit card loans, certain auto and business banking loans, and student loans. For the scored portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete periods of time. The statistical analysis uses portfolio modeling, credit scoring, and decision-support tools, which consider loan-level factors such as delinquency status, credit scores, collateral values, and other risk factors.&#32;Credit loss analyses also consider, as appropriate, uncertainties and other factors, including those related to current macroeconomic and political conditions, the quality of underwriting standards, and other internal and external factors. The factors and analysis are updated on a quarterly basis or more frequently as market conditions dictate.Risk-rated exposureRisk-rated portfolios are generally held in CIB, CB and AWM, but also include certain business banking and auto dealer loans held in CCB that are risk-rated because they have characteristics similar to commercial loans. For the risk-rated portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on estimates of the probability of default (&#8220;PD&#8221;) and loss severity given a default. The probability of default is the likelihood that a borrower will default on its obligation; the loss given default (&#8220;LGD&#8221;) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon the default and takes into consideration collateral and structural support for each credit facility. The estimation process includes assigning risk ratings to each borrower and credit facility to differentiate risk within the portfolio. These risk ratings are reviewed regularly by Credit Risk Management and revised as needed to reflect the borrower's current financial position, risk profile and related collateral. The calculations and assumptions are based on both internal and external historical experience and management judgment and are reviewed regularly.Stress testingStress testing is important in measuring and managing credit risk in the Firm's credit portfolio. The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on estimated credit losses for the Firm. Economic scenarios and the underlying parameters are defined centrally, articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors and applied across the businesses. The stress test results may indicate credit migration, changes in delinquency trends and potential losses in the credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress testing processes, management also considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, including industry and country- specific stress scenarios, as necessary. The Firm uses stress testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite both at a Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of stress on individual counterparties.Risk monitoring and managementThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and decision-making process of extending credit to ensure credit risks are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines for management of distressed exposures. In addition, certain models, assumptions and inputs used in evaluating and monitoring credit risk are independently validated by groups that are separate from the line of businesses.Consumer credit risk is monitored for delinquency and other trends, including any concentrations at the portfolio level, as certain of these trends can be modified through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Risk Management evaluates delinquency and other trends against business expectations, current and forecasted economic conditions, and industry benchmarks. Historical and forecasted trends are incorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and are part of the monitoring of the credit risk profile of the portfolio. &#160;Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfolio, industry, and individual client and counterparty level with established concentration limits that are reviewed and revised as deemed appropriate by management, typically on an annual basis. Industry and counterparty limits, as measured in terms of exposure and economic risk appetite, are subject to stress-based loss constraints. In addition, wrong-way risk &#8212; the risk that exposure to a counterparty is positively correlated with the impact of a default by the same counterparty, which could cause exposure to increase at the same time as the counterparty's capacity to meet its obligations is decreasing &#8212; is actively monitored as this risk could result in greater exposure at default compared with a transaction with another counterparty that does not have this risk.Management of the Firm's wholesale credit risk exposure is accomplished through a number of means, including:In addition to Credit Risk Management, an independent Credit Review function, is responsible for:&#32;For further discussion of consumer and wholesale loans, see Note 14.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior members of Credit Risk Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, risk committees, senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate.Management's discussion and analysisIn the following tables, reported loans include loans retained (i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale; and certain loans accounted for at fair value. In addition, the Firm records certain loans accounted for at fair value in trading assets. For further information regarding these loans, see Note 3 and Note 4. For additional information on the Firm's loans, lending-related commitments, and derivative receivables, including the Firm's accounting policies, see Note 14, Note 29, and Note 6, respectively. For further information regarding the credit risk inherent in the Firm's cash placed with banks, investment securities portfolio, and securities financing portfolio, see Note 5, Note 12, and Note 13, respectively.For discussion of the consumer credit environment and consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 89&#8211;95&#32;and Note 14. For discussion of wholesale credit environment and wholesale loans, see Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 96&#8211;104&#32;and Note 14.&#160;The Firm's&#32;consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, business banking loans and student loans, and associated lending-related commitments.&#32;The Firm's focus is on serving primarily the prime segment of the consumer credit market. The credit performance of the consumer portfolio continues to benefit from discipline in credit underwriting as well as improvement in the economy driven by increasing home &#160;prices and lower unemployment. Both early-stage delinquencies (30&#8211;89 days delinquent) and late-stage delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) for residential real estate, excluding government guaranteed loans, declined from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;levels. The Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate and the net charge-off rate increased from the prior year but remain near record lows. For further information on consumer loans, see Note 14.The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held by AWM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corporate.&#32;For further information about the Firm's nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisConsumer, excluding credit cardPortfolio analysisConsumer loan balances increased during the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, predominantly due to originations of high-quality prime mortgage and auto loans that have been retained on the balance sheet, partially offset by paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. The credit environment remained favorable as the economy strengthened and home prices increased.PCI loans are excluded from the following discussions of individual loan products and are addressed separately below. For further information about the Firm's consumer portfolio, including information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit quality indicators, see Note 14.Home equity:&#32;The home equity portfolio declined from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;primarily reflecting loan paydowns and charge-offs. Both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies declined from December&#160;31, 2015. Nonaccrual loans improved from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;primarily as a result of loss mitigation activities. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, declined when compared with the prior year as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At December&#160;31, 2016, approximately 90%&#32;of the Firm's home equity portfolio consists of home equity lines of credit (&#8220;HELOCs&#8221;) and the remainder consists of home equity loans (&#8220;HELOANs&#8221;). HELOANs are generally fixed-rate, closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms ranging from 3&#8211;30 years. In general, HELOCs originated by the Firm are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC recasts into a loan with a 20-year amortization period. At the time of origination, the borrower typically selects one of two minimum payment options that will generally remain in effect during the revolving period: a monthly payment of 1% of the outstanding balance, or interest-only payments based on a variable index (typically Prime). HELOCs originated by Washington Mutual were generally revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of the loan's term.The carrying value of HELOCs outstanding was $34 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016. Of such amounts, approximately:&#160;The following chart illustrates the payment recast composition of the approximately $21 billion&#32;of HELOCs scheduled to recast in the future, based upon their current contractual terms. HELOCs scheduled to recast(at December&#160;31, 2016)The Firm has considered this payment recast risk in its allowance for loan losses based upon the estimated amount of payment shock (i.e., the excess of the fully-amortizing payment over the interest-only payment in effect prior to recast) expected to occur at the payment recast date, along with the corresponding estimated PD and loss severity assumptions. As part of its allowance estimate, the Firm also expects, based on observed activity in recent years, that approximately 30% of the carrying value of HELOCs scheduled to recast will voluntarily prepay prior to or after the recast. The HELOCs that have previously recast to fully amortizing payments generally have higher delinquency rates than the HELOCs within the revolving period, primarily as a result of the payment shock at the time of recast. Certain other factors, such as future developments in both unemployment rates and home prices, could also have a significant impact on the performance of these loans.The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a material deterioration in their credit risk profile. The Firm will continue to evaluate both the near-term and longer-term recast risks inherent in its HELOC portfolio to ensure that changes in the Firm's estimate of incurred losses are appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses and that the Firm's account management practices are appropriate given the portfolio's risk profile.Junior lien loans where the borrower has a senior lien loan that is either delinquent or has been modified are considered high-risk seconds. Such loans are considered to pose a higher risk of default than junior lien loans for which the senior lien loan is neither delinquent nor modified. At December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm estimated that the carrying value of its home equity portfolio contained approximately $1.1 billion&#32;of current junior lien loans that were considered high risk seconds, compared with $1.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. The Firm estimates the balance of its total exposure to high-risk seconds on a quarterly basis using internal data and loan level credit bureau data (which typically provides the delinquency status of the senior lien loan). The Firm considers the increased PD associated with these high-risk seconds in estimating the allowance for loan losses and classifies those loans that are subordinated to a first lien loan that is more than 90 days delinquent as nonaccrual loans. The estimated balance of these high-risk seconds may vary from quarter to quarter for reasons such as the movement of related senior lien loans into and out of the 30+ day delinquency bucket. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these loans. For further information, see Note 14.Residential mortgage:&#32;The residential mortgage portfolio predominantly consists of high-quality prime mortgage loans with a small component (approximately 2%) of the residential mortgage portfolio in subprime mortgage loans. These subprime mortgage loans continue to run-off and are performing in line with expectations. The residential mortgage portfolio, including loans held-for-sale, increased from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;due to retained originations of primarily high-quality fixed rate prime mortgage loans partially offset by paydowns. Both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies showed improvement from December&#160;31, 2015. Nonaccrual loans decreased from the prior year primarily as a result of loss mitigation activities. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;remain low, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm's residential mortgage portfolio, including loans held-for-sale, included $9.5 billion&#32;and $11.1 billion, respectively, of mortgage loans insured and/or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, of which $7.0 billion&#32;and $8.4 billion, respectively, were 30 days or more past due (of these past due loans, $5.0 billion&#32;and $6.3 billion, respectively, were 90 days or more past due). The Firm monitors its exposure to certain potential unrecoverable claim payments related to government insured loans and considers this exposure in estimating the allowance for loan losses. &#160;At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm's residential mortgage portfolio included $19.1 billion&#32;and $17.8 billion, respectively, of interest-only loans. These loans have an interest-only payment period generally followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing payment period to maturity and are typically originated as higher-balance loans to higher-income borrowers. To date, losses on this portfolio generally have been consistent with the broader residential mortgage portfolio and the Firm's expectations. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these loans.Auto:&#32;Auto loans increased from December&#160;31, 2015, as a result of growth in new originations. Nonaccrual loans increased compared with December&#160;31, 2015, primarily due to downgrades of select auto dealer risk-rated loans. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;increased compared with the prior year, as a result of higher retail auto loan balances and a moderate increase in loss severity. The auto portfolio predominantly consists of prime-quality loans.Business banking: Business banking loans increased compared with December&#160;31, 2015&#32;as a result of growth in loan originations. Nonaccrual loans at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;increased from the prior year as a result of growth in the portfolio.Student and other: Student and other loans decreased from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;primarily as a result of the run-off of the student loan portfolio as the Firm ceased originations of student loans during the fourth quarter of 2013. Nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs also declined as a result of the run-off of the student loan portfolio.Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans decreased as the portfolio continues to run off. As of December&#160;31, 2016, approximately 12%&#32;of the option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 66%&#32;of the portfolio had been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans. Substantially all of the remaining loans are making amortizing payments, although such payments are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment recast. Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans when payment recast results in a payment increase. The expected increase in default rates is considered in the Firm's quarterly impairment assessment.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the allowance for loan losses.For further information on the Firm's PCI loans, including write-offs, see Note 14.Geographic composition of residential real estate loansAt December&#160;31, 2016, $139.7 billion, or 63%&#32;of total retained residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, were concentrated in California, New York, Illinois, Texas and Florida, compared with $123.0 billion, or 61%, at December&#160;31, 2015. California had the greatest concentration of retained residential loans with 30%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016, compared with 28%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans concentrated in California represented 55%&#32;of total PCI loans at both December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The following charts illustrate the percentages of the total retained residential real estate portfolio held in the top 5 states, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans. For further information on the geographic composition of the Firm's residential real estate loans, see Note 14.&#32;&#32;&#32;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160; Current estimated loan-to-values of residential real estate loansThe current estimated average loan-to-value (&#8220;LTV&#8221;) ratio for residential real estate loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 58%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;compared with 59%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. Although the delinquency rate for loans with high LTV ratios is generally greater than the delinquency rate for loans in which the borrower has greater equity in the collateral, the average LTV ratios have declined consistent with improvements in home prices, reducing the number of loans with a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%.The current estimated average LTV ratio for residential real estate PCI loans, based on the unpaid principal balances, was 64%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016, compared with 69%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. Of the total PCI portfolio, 4%&#32;of the loans had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 1%&#32;had a current LTV ratio greater than 125% at December&#160;31, 2016, compared with 6%&#32;and 1%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2015.While the current estimated collateral value is greater than the net carrying value of PCI loans, the ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on borrowers' behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homes with negative equity, as well as on the cost of alternative housing.For further information on current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans, see Note 14.Loan modification activities &#8211; residential real estate loansThe performance of modified loans generally differs by product type due to differences in both the credit quality and the types of modifications provided. Performance metrics for modifications to the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been seasoned more than six months show weighted-average redefault rates of 21%&#32;for home equity and 22%&#32;for residential mortgages. The cumulative performance metrics for modifications to the PCI residential real estate portfolio that have been seasoned more than six months show weighted average redefault rates of 20%&#32;for home equity, 19%&#32;for prime mortgages, 16%&#32;for option ARMs and 32%&#32;for subprime mortgages. The cumulative redefault rates reflect the performance of modifications completed under both the U.S. Government's Home Affordable Modification Program (&#8220;HAMP&#8221;) and the Firm's proprietary modification programs (primarily the Firm's modification program that was modeled after HAMP) from October 1, 2009, through December&#160;31, 2016.Certain loans that were modified under HAMP and the Firm's proprietary modification programs have interest rate reset provisions (&#8220;step-rate modifications&#8221;). Interest rates on these loans generally began to increase commencing in 2014 by 1% per year, and continue to do so, until the rate reaches a specified cap, typically at a prevailing market interest rate for a fixed-rate loan as of the modification date. At December&#160;31, 2016, the carrying value of non-PCI loans and the unpaid principal balance of PCI loans &#160;modified in active step-rate modifications were $3 billion&#32;and $9 billion, respectively. The Firm continues to monitor this risk exposure and the impact of these potential interest rate increases is considered in the Firm's allowance for loan losses.The following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, relating to modified retained residential real estate loans for which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to be accounted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm's quarterly assessment of estimated future cash flows. Modifications of consumer loans other than PCI loans are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. For further information on modifications for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisNonperforming assetsThe following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, about consumer, excluding credit card, nonperforming assets.Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio decreased to&#32;$4.1 billion&#32;from&#32;$4.8 billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, and&#32;2015, respectively, of which&#32;29%&#32;and&#32;31%&#32;were&#32;greater than 150 days past due, respectively. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due was charged down by approximately 43%&#32;and 44%&#32;to the estimated net realizable value of the collateral at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. &#160;Active and suspended foreclosure:&#32;For information on loans that were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure, see Note 14.Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in the consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Credit cardTotal credit card loans increased from December&#160;31, 2015&#32;due to strong new account growth and higher sales volume. The December&#160;31, 2016&#32;30+ day delinquency rate increased to 1.61%&#32;from 1.43%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015. For the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the net charge-off rates were 2.63%&#32;and 2.51%, respectively. The credit card portfolio continues to reflect a largely well-seasoned, rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification. New originations continue to grow as a percentage of the total portfolio, in line with the Firm's credit parameters; these originations have generated higher loss rates, as anticipated, than the more seasoned portion of the portfolio, given the higher mix of near-prime accounts being originated. These near-prime accounts have &#160;net revenue rates and returns on equity that are higher than the portfolio average.Loans outstanding in the top five states of California, Texas, New York, Florida and Illinois consisted of $62.8 billion&#32;in receivables, or 44%&#32;of the retained loan portfolio, at December&#160;31, 2016, compared with $57.5 billion, or 44%, at December&#160;31, 2015. The greatest geographic concentration of credit card retained loans is in California, which represented 15%&#32;and 14%&#32;of total retained loans at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. For further information on the geographic and FICO composition of the Firm's credit card loans, see Note 14.&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;&#32;Modifications of credit card loansAt December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had $1.2 billion&#32;and $1.5 billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that have been modified in TDRs. These balances included both credit card loans with modified payment terms and credit card loans that reverted back to their pre-modification payment terms because the cardholder did not comply with the modified payment terms. The decrease in modified credit card loans outstanding from December&#160;31, 2015, was attributable to a reduction in new modifications as well as ongoing payments and charge-offs on previously modified credit card loans. &#160;Consistent with the Firm's policy, all credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until charged off. However, the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans and charged to interest income, for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued and billed interest and fee income.For additional information about loan modification programs to borrowers, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm's wholesale businesses are exposed to credit risk through underwriting, lending, market-making, and hedging activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through various operating services such as cash management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses is generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm distributes a significant percentage of the loans it originates into the market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage portfolio concentrations and credit risk.The wholesale credit portfolio, excluding the Oil & Gas, Natural Gas Pipelines, and Metals & Mining portfolios, continued to be generally stable for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, characterized by low levels of criticized exposure, nonaccrual loans and charge-offs. See industry discussion on pages 97&#8211;101&#32;for further information. Growth in retained loans was predominantly driven within the commercial real estate portfolio in Commercial Banking, and across multiple commercial and industrial industries in Commercial Banking and the Corporate & Investment Bank.&#160;Discipline in underwriting across all areas of lending continues to remain a key point of focus. The wholesale portfolio is actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews of client credit quality and transaction structure, inclusive of collateral where applicable; and of industry, product and client concentrations.&#160;The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings defined by S&P and Moody's. For additional information on wholesale loan portfolio risk ratings, see Note 14.Wholesale credit exposure &#8211; industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, paying particular attention to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized align with the U.S. banking regulators' definition of criticized exposures, which consist of the special mention, substandard and doubtful &#160;categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, was $19.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016, compared with $14.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015, driven by downgrades, including within the Oil & Gas, Natural Gas Pipelines, and Metals & Mining portfolios.Management's discussion and analysisBelow are summaries of the Firm's exposures as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. For additional information on industry concentrations, see Note 5.Management's discussion and analysisPresented below is a discussion of certain industries to which the Firm has significant exposures and/or which present actual or potential credit concerns. Real Estate Exposure to the Real Estate industry was approximately 16.1% and 14.6% of the Firm's total wholesale exposure as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Exposure to this industry increased by $18.2 billion, or 16%, in 2016 to $135.0 billion primarily driven by Commercial Banking. The investment-grade percentage of the portfolio increased to 77% in 2016, up from 75% in 2015. As of December 31,&#32;&#160;2016, $106.3 billion of the exposure was drawn, of which 83% was investment-grade, and 83% of the $135.0 billion exposure was secured. As of December 31, 2016, $80.1 billion of the $135.0 billion was multifamily, largely in California; of the $80.1 billion, 82% was investment-grade and 98% was secured. For further information on commercial real estate loans, see Note 14.Oil & Gas and Natural Gas PipelinesThe following table presents Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipeline exposures as of December&#160;31, 2016, and December&#160;31, 2015.(a) Noninvestment-grade exposure to E&P and Oilfield Services is largely secured.(b) Other Oil & Gas includes Integrated Oil & Gas companies, Midstream/Oil Pipeline companies and refineries.(c) Natural Gas Pipelines is reported within the Utilities Industry.Exposure to the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios was approximately 5.3%&#32;and 5.8%&#32;of the Firm's total wholesale exposure as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. Exposure to these industries decreased by $1.9 billion&#32;in 2016&#32;to $44.5 billion; of the $44.5 billion, $14.4 billion&#32;was drawn at year-end. As of December&#160;31, 2016, approximately $21.4 billion&#32;of the exposure was investment-grade, of which approximately $5.3 billion&#32;was drawn, and approximately $23.1 billion of the exposure was noninvestment grade, of which approximately $9.0 billion was drawn; 21% of the total exposure to the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines industries was criticized. Secured lending, of which approximately half is reserve-based lending to the Exploration & Production sub-sector of the Oil & Gas industry, was $14.3 billion as of December 31, 2016; 44% of the secured lending exposure was drawn. Exposure to commercial real estate, which is reported within the Real Estate industry, in certain areas of Texas, California and Colorado that are deemed sensitive to the Oil & Gas industry, was $4.5 billion as of December 31, 2016.&#160; While the overall trends and sentiment have been stabilizing, the Firm continues to actively monitor and manage its exposure to these portfolios. Metals & MiningExposure to the Metals & Mining industry was approximately 1.6%&#32;and 1.8%&#32;of the Firm's total wholesale exposure as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. Exposure to the Metals & Mining industry decreased by $630 million in 2016&#32;to $13.4 billion, of which $4.4 billion&#32;was drawn. The portfolio largely consisted of exposure in North America, and was concentrated in the Steel and Diversified Mining sub-sectors. Approximately 41%&#32;and 46%&#32;of the exposure in the Metals & Mining portfolio was investment-grade as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and December&#160;31, 2015, respectively. While the overall trends and sentiment have been stabilizing, the Firm continues to actively monitor and manage its exposure to this industry. LoansIn the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. For further discussion on loans, including information on credit quality indicators and sales of loans, see Note 14.The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan portfolio for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Wholesale nonaccrual loans increased primarily driven by downgrades in the Oil & Gas portfolio.(a) Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when management believes full payment of principal or interest is not expected, regardless of delinquency status, or when principal or interest have been in default for a period of 90 days or more unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection.&#160;The following table presents net charge-offs/recoveries, which are defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The amounts in the table below do not include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual loans.Lending-related commitmentsThe Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfill its obligations under these guarantees, and the counterparties subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments is not representative of the Firm's future credit exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, the Firm has estimated a loan-equivalent amount for each commitment. The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm's lending-related commitments was $204.6 billion&#32;and $212.4 billion&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.Clearing servicesThe Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into securities and derivative transactions. Through the provision of these services the Firm is exposed to the risk of non-performance by its clients and may be required to share in losses incurred by central counterparties. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk to its clients through the collection of adequate margin at inception and throughout the life of the transactions and can also cease provision of clearing services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the clearing agreement. For further discussion of clearing services, see Note 29.Management's discussion and analysisDerivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-making activities. Derivatives enable customers to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its own credit and other market risk exposure. The nature of the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the derivative affect the credit risk to which the Firm is exposed. For OTC derivatives the Firm is exposed to the credit risk of the derivative counterparty. For exchange-traded derivatives (&#8220;ETD&#8221;), such as futures and options and &#8220;cleared&#8221; over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC-cleared&#8221;) derivatives, the Firm is generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant CCP. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk exposures arising from derivative transactions through the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements and collateral agreements. For further discussion of derivative contracts, counterparties and settlement types, see Note 6.The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables for the periods presented.Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance sheets were $64.1 billion&#32;and $59.7 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#160;These amounts represent the fair value of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. However, in management's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also take into consideration additional liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and agency securities and other group of seven nations (&#8220;G7&#8221;) government bonds) and other cash collateral held by the Firm aggregating $22.7 billion&#32;and $16.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, that may be used as security when the fair value of the client's exposure is in the Firm's favor. The change in derivative receivables was predominantly related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB. The increase in derivative receivables reflected the impact of market movements, which increased foreign exchange receivables, partially offset by reduced commodity derivative receivables.&#160;In addition to the collateral described in the preceding paragraph, the Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily cash, G7 government securities, other liquid government-agency and guaranteed securities, and corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in the table above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the client's derivative transactions move in the Firm's favor. The derivative receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also does not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit. For additional information on the Firm's use of collateral agreements, see Note 6.While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net fair value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#8220;DRE&#8221;), and Average exposure (&#8220;AVG&#8221;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where applicable.Peak represents a conservative measure of potential exposure to a counterparty calculated in a manner that is broadly equivalent to a 97.5% confidence level over the life of the transaction. Peak is the primary measure used by the Firm for setting of credit limits for derivative transactions, senior management reporting and derivatives exposure management. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is used for aggregating derivative credit risk exposures with loans and other credit risk.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capital and the CVA, as further described below. The three year AVG exposure was $31.1 billion&#32;and $32.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, compared with derivative receivables, net of all collateral, of $41.4 billion&#32;and $43.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.The fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm's risk management process takes into consideration the potential impact of wrong-way risk, which is broadly defined as the potential for increased correlation between the Firm's exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty's credit quality. Many factors may influence the nature and magnitude of these correlations over time. To the extent that these correlations are identified, the Firm may adjust the CVA associated with that counterparty's AVG. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions.&#160;The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to the Firm's current derivatives portfolio over the next 10&#160;years as calculated by the Peak, DRE and AVG metrics. The three measures generally show that exposure will decline after the first year, if no new trades are added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresDecember&#160;31, 2016(in billions)The following table summarizes the ratings profile by derivative counterparty of the Firm's derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of all collateral, at the dates indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's.As previously noted, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements &#8212; excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity &#8212; was 90%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2016, largely unchanged compared with 87%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2015.Credit derivativesThe Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-maker, and second, as an end-user to manage the Firm's own credit risk associated with various exposures. For a detailed description of credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.&#160;Credit portfolio management activitiesIncluded in the Firm's end-user activities are credit derivatives used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposure in the Firm's wholesale businesses (collectively, &#8220;credit portfolio management&#8221; activities). Information on credit portfolio management activities is provided in the table below. For further information on derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to manage other exposures, including credit risk arising from certain securities held in the Firm's market-making businesses. These credit derivatives are not included in credit portfolio management activities; for further information on these credit derivatives as well as credit derivatives used in the Firm's capacity as a market-maker in credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.Management's discussion and analysisThe credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, &#160;between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall credit exposure.The effectiveness of credit default swaps (&#8220;CDS&#8221;) as a hedge against the Firm's exposures may vary depending on a number of factors, including the named reference entity (i.e., the Firm may experience losses on specific exposures that are different than the named reference entities in the purchased CDS); the contractual terms of the CDS (which may have a defined credit event that does not align with an actual loss realized by the Firm); and the maturity of the Firm's CDS protection (which in some cases may be shorter than the Firm's exposures). However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to the maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was purchased, and remaining differences in maturity are actively monitored and managed by the Firm.JPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers both the consumer (primarily scored) portfolio and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio. The allowance represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses and related management judgments, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 132&#8211;134&#32;and Note 15.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the CRO, the CFO and the Controller of the Firm, and discussed with the DRPC and the Audit Committee. As of December&#160;31, 2016, JPMorgan Chase&#32;deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio.&#160;The consumer allowance for loan losses remained relatively unchanged from December&#160;31, 2015. Changes to the allowance for loan losses included reductions in the residential real estate portfolio, reflecting continued improvements in home prices and lower delinquencies, as well as runoff in the student loan portfolio. These reductions were offset by increases in the allowance for loan losses reflecting loan growth in the credit card portfolio (including newer vintages which, as anticipated, have higher loss rates compared to the overall portfolio), as well as loan growth in the auto and business banking loan portfolios. For additional information about delinquencies and nonaccrual loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 89&#8211;95&#32;and Note 14. The wholesale allowance for credit losses increased from December&#160;31, 2015, reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios. For additional information on the wholesale portfolio, see Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 96&#8211;104&#32;and Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisProvision for credit lossesFor the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, the provision for credit losses was $5.4 billion, compared with $3.8 billion&#32;for the year ended December&#160;31, 2015. The total consumer provision for credit losses increased for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;when compared with the prior year. The increase in the provision was driven by:&#160;allowance for loan losses was lower than the prior year. The reduction in both periods reflected continued improvements in home prices and lower delinquencies andThe wholesale provision for credit losses increased for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;reflecting the impact of downgrades in the Oil & Gas and Natural Gas Pipelines portfolios.Management's discussion and analysisCountry risk is the risk that a sovereign event or action alters the value or terms of contractual obligations of obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects markets related to a particular country. The Firm has a comprehensive country risk management framework for assessing country risks, determining risk tolerance, and measuring and monitoring direct country exposures in the Firm. The Country Risk Management group is responsible for developing guidelines and policies for managing country risk in both emerging and developed countries. The Country Risk Management group actively monitors the various portfolios giving rise to country risk to ensure the Firm's country risk exposures are diversified and that exposure levels are appropriate given the Firm's strategy and risk tolerance relative to a country.Country risk organizationThe Country Risk Management group, part of the independent risk management function, works in close partnership with other risk functions to assess and monitor country risk within the Firm. The Firmwide Risk Executive for Country Risk reports to the Firm's CRO.Country Risk Management is responsible for the following functions:Country risk identification and measurementThe Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending and deposits, investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Country exposure includes activity with both government and private-sector entities in a country. Under the Firm's internal country risk management approach, country exposure is reported based on the country where the majority of the assets of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor are located or where the majority of its revenue is derived, which may be different than the domicile (legal residence) or country of incorporation of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor. Country exposures are generally measured by considering the Firm's risk to an immediate default of the counterparty or obligor, with zero recovery. Assumptions are sometimes required in determining the measurement and allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case of certain tranched credit derivatives. Different measurement approaches or assumptions would affect the amount of reported country exposure.&#160;Under the Firm's internal country risk measurement framework:Some activities may create contingent or indirect exposure related to a country (for example, providing clearing services or secondary exposure to collateral on securities financing receivables). These exposures are managed in the normal course of business through the Firm's credit, market, and operational risk governance, rather than through Country Risk Management.The Firm's internal country risk reporting differs from the reporting provided under the FFIEC bank regulatory requirements. For further information on the FFIEC's reporting methodology, see Cross-border outstandings on page 292.Country risk stress testingThe country risk stress framework aims to estimate losses arising from a country crisis by capturing the impact of large asset price movements in a country based on market shocks combined with counterparty specific assumptions. Country Risk Management periodically defines and runs ad hoc stress scenarios for individual countries in response to specific market events and sector performance concerns.Country risk monitoring and controlThe Country Risk Management group establishes guidelines for sovereign ratings reviews and limit management. Country stress and nominal exposures are measured under a comprehensive country limit framework. Country ratings and limits are actively monitored and reported on a regular basis. Country limit requirements are reviewed and approved by senior management as often as necessary, but at least annually. In addition, the Country Risk Management group uses surveillance tools, such as signaling models and ratings indicators, for early identification of potential country risk concerns.&#160;Country risk reportingThe following table presents the Firm's top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) as of December&#160;31, 2016. The selection of countries is based solely on the Firm's largest total exposures by country, based on the Firm's internal country risk management approach, and does not represent the Firm's view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period to period due to client activity and market flows.The increase in exposure to Germany, Japan and Luxembourg since December 31, 2015 largely reflects higher Euro and Yen balances, predominantly placed on deposit at the central banks of these countries, driven by changing client positions and prevailing market and liquidity conditions.Management's discussion and analysisLiquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its contractual and contingent obligations or that it does not have the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of funding and liquidity to support its assets and liabilities.Liquidity risk oversightThe Firm has a liquidity risk oversight function whose primary objective is to provide assessment, measurement, monitoring, and control of liquidity risk across the Firm. Liquidity risk oversight is managed through a dedicated firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight group. The CIO, Treasury and Corporate (&#8220;CTC&#8221;) CRO, who reports to the CRO, as part of the independent risk management function, has responsibility for firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight. Liquidity Risk Oversight's responsibilities include but are not limited to:Risk governance and measurementSpecific committees responsible for liquidity governance include firmwide ALCO as well as line of business and regional ALCOs, and the CTC Risk Committee. In addition, the DRPC reviews and recommends to the Board of Directors, for formal approval, the Firm's liquidity risk tolerances, liquidity strategy, and liquidity policy at least annually. For further discussion of ALCO and other risk-related committees, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 71&#8211;75.Internal Stress testingLiquidity stress tests are intended to ensure the Firm has sufficient liquidity under a variety of adverse scenarios, including scenarios analyzed as part of the Firm's resolution and recovery planning. Stress scenarios are produced for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;Parent Company&#8221;) and the Firm's material legal entities on a regular basis and ad hoc stress tests are performed, as needed, in response to specific market events or concerns. Liquidity stress tests assume all of the Firm's contractual obligations are met and take into consideration varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding markets, estimated non-contractual and contingent outflows and potential impediments to the availability and transferability of liquidity between jurisdictions and material legal entities such as regulatory, legal or other restrictions. Liquidity outflow assumptions are modeled across a range of time horizons and contemplate both market and idiosyncratic stress. &#160;Results of stress tests are considered in the formulation of the Firm's funding plan and assessment of its liquidity position. The Parent Company acts as a source of funding for the Firm through stock and long-term debt issuances, and the IHC provides funding support to the ongoing operations of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, as necessary. The Firm maintains liquidity at the Parent Company and the IHC, in addition to liquidity held at the operating subsidiaries, at levels sufficient to comply with liquidity risk tolerances and minimum liquidity requirements, to manage through periods of stress where access to normal funding sources is disrupted.Liquidity management Treasury and CIO is responsible for liquidity management. The primary objectives of effective liquidity management are to ensure that the Firm's core businesses and material legal entities are able to operate in support of client needs, meet contractual and contingent obligations through normal economic cycles as well as during stress events, and to manage an optimal funding mix, and availability of liquidity sources. The Firm manages liquidity and funding using a centralized, global approach across its entities, taking into consideration both their current liquidity profile and any potential changes over time, in order to optimize liquidity sources and uses.In the context of the Firm's liquidity management, Treasury and CIO is responsible for:Contingency funding planThe Firm's contingency funding plan (&#8220;CFP&#8221;), which is reviewed by ALCO and approved by the DRPC, is a compilation of procedures and action plans for managing liquidity through stress events. The CFP incorporates the limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk Oversight group. These limits and indicators are reviewed regularly to identify the emergence of risks or vulnerabilities in the Firm's liquidity position. The CFP identifies the alternative contingent liquidity resources available to the Firm in a stress event.LCR and NSFR The U.S. LCR rule requires the Firm to measure the amount of HQLA held by the Firm in relation to estimated net cash outflows within a 30-day period during an acute stress event. The LCR was required to be 90% at January 1, 2016, increased to a minimum of 100% commencing January 1, 2017. At December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm was compliant with the Fully Phased-In U.S. LCR.On December 19, 2016 the Federal Reserve published final U.S. LCR public disclosure requirements for certain bank holding companies and nonbank financial companies. Starting with the second quarter of 2017, the Firm will be required to disclose quarterly its consolidated LCR pursuant to the U.S. LCR rule, including the Firm's average LCR for the quarter and the key quantitative components of the average LCR in a standardized template, along with a qualitative discussion of material drivers of the ratio, changes over time, and causes of such changes.The Basel Committee final standard for the net stable funding ratio (&#8220;Basel NSFR&#8221;) is intended to measure the adequacy of &#8220;available&#8221; and &#8220;required&#8221; amounts of stable funding over a one-year horizon. Basel NSFR will become a minimum standard by January 1, 2018 and requires that this ratio be equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis. On April 26, 2016, the U.S. NSFR proposal was released for large banks and bank holding companies and was largely consistent with Basel NSFR. The proposed requirement would apply beginning on January 1, 2018, consistent with the Basel NSFR timeline.The Firm estimates it was compliant with the proposed U.S. NSFR as of December 31, 2016 based on its current understanding of the proposed rule.HQLA HQLA is the amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the U.S. LCR. HQLA primarily consists of cash and certain unencumbered high quality liquid assets as defined in the final rule.As of December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm's HQLA was $524 billion, compared with $496 billion&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2015. The increase in HQLA primarily reflects the impact of sales, maturities and paydowns in non-HQLA-eligible securities, as well as deposit growth in excess of loan growth. Certain of these actions resulted in increased excess liquidity at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A. which is excluded from the Firm's HQLA as required under the U.S. LCR rules. The Firm's HQLA may fluctuate from period to period primarily due to normal flows from client activity.&#160;The following table presents the Firm's estimated HQLA included in the U.S. LCR broken out by HQLA-eligible cash and securities as of December&#160;31, 2016.As of December&#160;31, 2016, in addition to HQLA reported above, the Firm had approximately $262 billion&#32;of unencumbered marketable securities, such as equity securities and fixed income debt securities, available to raise liquidity, if required. This includes HQLA-eligible securities included as part of the excess liquidity at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The Firm also maintains borrowing capacity at various Federal Home Loan Banks (&#8220;FHLBs&#8221;), the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central banks as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although available, the Firm does not view the borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and the various other central banks as a primary source of liquidity. As of December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm's remaining borrowing capacity at various FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Bank discount window was approximately $221 billion. This remaining borrowing capacity excludes the benefit of securities included in HQLA or other unencumbered securities that are currently held at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window, but for which the Firm has not drawn liquidity.FundingSources of fundsManagement believes that the Firm's unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance sheet obligations.The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources of funding including a stable deposit franchise as well as secured and unsecured funding in the capital markets. The Firm's loan portfolio ($894.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016), is funded with a portion of the Firm's deposits ($1,375.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016) and&#160;through&#160;securitizations and, with respect to a portion of the Firm's real estate-related loans, with secured borrowings from the FHLBs.&#160;Deposits in excess of the amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or other short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and liquidity risk characteristics. Securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets- Management's discussion and analysisdebt and equity instruments are primarily funded by the Firm's securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, trading liabilities&#8211;debt and equity instruments, and a portion of the Firm's long-term debt and stockholders' equity. In addition to funding securities borrowed or purchased under resale agreements and trading assets-debt and&#32;equity instruments, proceeds from &#160;the Firm's debt and equity issuances are used to fund certain loans and other financial and non-financial assets, or may be invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio. See the discussion below for additional information relating to Deposits, Short-term funding, and Long-term funding and issuance.DepositsThe table below summarizes, by line of business, the period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.A key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through each of its lines of business, which provides a stable source of funding and limits reliance on the wholesale funding markets. A significant portion of the Firm's deposits are consumer deposits, which are considered a stable source of liquidity. Additionally, the majority of the Firm's wholesale operating deposits are also considered to be stable sources of liquidity because they are generated from customers that maintain operating service relationships with the Firm. The Firm's loans-to-deposits ratio was 65%&#32;at both December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.As of December&#160;31, 2016, total deposits for the Firm were $1,375.2 billion, compared with $1,279.7 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;(61%&#32;of total liabilities at each of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015). The increase was attributable to higher consumer and wholesale deposits. The increase in consumer deposits reflected continuing strong growth from existing and new customers, and the impact of low attrition rates. The wholesale increase was driven by growth in operating deposits related to client activity in CIB's Treasury Services business, and inflows in AWM primarily from business growth and the impact of new rules governing money market funds. The Firm believes average deposit balances are generally more representative of deposit trends. The increase in average deposits for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;compared with the year ended December&#160;31, 2015, was predominantly driven by an increase in consumer deposits, partially offset by a reduction in wholesale non-operating deposits, driven by the Firm's actions in 2015 to reduce such deposits. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion of the Firm's business segments results and the Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 51&#8211;70&#32;and pages 43&#8211;44, respectively.The following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, and average balances for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. For additional information, see the Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 43&#8211;44&#32;and Note 21.Management's discussion and analysisShort-term fundingThe Firm's sources of short-term secured funding primarily consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are secured predominantly by high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS, and constitute a significant portion of the federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements on the Consolidated balance sheets. The decrease in the average balance of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase for the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, compared with the balance at December&#160;31, 2015, was largely due to lower secured financing of trading assets-debt and equity instruments in the CIB related to client-driven market-making activities. The balances associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers' investment and financing activities; the Firm's demand for financing; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm's liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for both the investment securities and market-making portfolios); and other market and portfolio factors.Long-term funding and issuanceLong-term funding provides additional sources of stable funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm's long-term funding plan is driven by expected client activity, liquidity considerations, and regulatory requirements, including TLAC requirements. Long-term funding objectives include maintaining diversification, maximizing market access and optimizing funding costs. The Firm evaluates various funding markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term funding plan.The significant majority of the Firm's long-term unsecured funding is issued by the Parent Company to provide maximum flexibility in support of both bank and nonbank subsidiary funding needs. The Parent Company advances substantially all net funding proceeds to the IHC. The IHC does not issue debt to external counterparties. The following table summarizes long-term unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. For additional information, see Note 21.&#160;The Firm raises secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the FHLBs. The following table summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemption for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The Firm's wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. For further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, see Note 16.Credit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, the Firm's funding requirements for VIEs and other third- &#160;party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see SPEs on page 45, and credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features in Note 6 on page 181.The credit ratings of the Parent Company and the Firm's principal bank and nonbank subsidiaries as of December&#160;31, 2016, were as follows.Downgrades of the Firm's long-term ratings by one or two notches could result in an increase in its cost of funds, and access to certain funding markets could be reduced as noted above. The nature and magnitude of the impact of ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and&#32;behavioral factors (which the Firm believes are incorporated in its liquidity risk and stress testing metrics). The Firm believes that it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential decrease in funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.JPMorgan Chase's unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm's credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.&#160;Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, future profitability, risk management practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader ratings methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to changes in the Firm's credit ratings.Although the Firm closely monitors and endeavors to manage, to the extent it is able, factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that its credit ratings will not be changed in the future.Management's discussion and analysisMarket risk is the risk of loss arising from potential adverse changes in the value of the Firm's assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities or credit spreads.&#32;Market Risk ManagementMarket Risk Management monitors market risks throughout the Firm and defines market risk policies and procedures. The Market Risk Management function reports to the Firm's CRO.Market Risk Management seeks to manage risk, facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operating performance and provide transparency into the Firm's market risk profile for senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk Management is responsible for the following functions:Risk measurementTools used to measure risk&#32;Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, to assess risk including:&#160;Risk monitoring and control Market risk exposure is managed primarily through a series of limits set in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity and accommodation of client business and management experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate level limits include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line of business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Limits may also be set within the lines of business, as well at the portfolio or legal entity level.Market Risk Management sets limits and regularly reviews and updates them as appropriate, with any changes approved by line of business management and Market Risk Management. Senior management, including the Firm's CEO and CRO, are responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk limits on an ongoing basis. All limits that have not been reviewed within specified time periods by Market Risk Management are escalated to senior management. The lines of business are responsible for adhering to established limits against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner to limit approvers, Market Risk Management and senior management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk Management consults with Firm senior management and the line of business senior management to determine the appropriate course of action required to return to compliance, which may include a reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach. Certain Firm or line of business-level limits that have been breached for three business days or longer, or by more than 30%, are escalated to senior management and the Firmwide Risk Committee.The following table summarizes by line of business the predominant business activities that give rise to market risk, and the primary market risk management tools utilized to manage those risks. As part of the Firm's evaluation and periodic enhancement of its market risk measures, during the third quarter of 2016 the Firm refined the scope of positions included in risk management&#160;VaR. In particular, certain private equity positions in the CIB, exposure arising from non-U.S. dollar denominated funding activities in Corporate, as well as seed capital investments in AWM were removed from the VaR calculation. Commencing with the third quarter of 2016, exposure arising from these positions is captured using other sensitivity-based measures, such as a 10% decline in market value or a 1 basis point parallel shift in spreads, as appropriate. For more information, see Other sensitivity-based measures at page 123. The Firm believes this refinement to its reported VaR measures more appropriately captures the risk of its market risk sensitive instruments. This change did not impact Regulatory VaR as these positions are not included in the calculation of Regulatory VaR. Regulatory VaR is used to derive the Firm's regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III.Management's discussion and analysisValue-at-riskJPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in a normal market environment. The Firm has a single VaR framework used as a basis for calculating Risk Management VaR&#32;and&#32;Regulatory VaR.The framework is employed across the Firm using historical simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The framework's approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative of the distribution of potential outcomes in the immediate future. The Firm believes the use of Risk Management VaR provides a stable measure of VaR that is closely aligned to the day-to-day risk management decisions made by the lines of business, and provides the appropriate information needed to respond to risk events on a daily basis.&#32;The Firm's Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which approximates a 95% confidence level.&#32;Risk Management VaR provides a consistent framework to measure risk profiles and levels of diversification across product types and is used for aggregating risks and monitoring limits across businesses. Those VaR results are reported to senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators.&#32;Under the Firm's Risk Management VaR methodology, assuming current changes in market values are consistent with the historical changes used in the simulation, the Firm would expect to incur VaR &#8220;back-testing exceptions,&#8221; defined as losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates, on average five times every 100 trading days. The number of VaR back-testing exceptions observed can differ from the statistically expected number of back-testing exceptions if the current level of market volatility is materially different from the level of market volatility during the 12 months of historical data used in the VaR calculation.Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual VaR models that simulate historical market returns for individual products and/or risk factors. To capture material market risks as part of the Firm's risk management framework, comprehensive VaR model calculations are performed daily for businesses whose activities give rise to market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes in market values over the historical period; inputs are selected based on the risk profile of each portfolio, as sensitivities and historical time series used to generate daily market values may be different across product types or risk management systems. The VaR model results across all portfolios are aggregated at the Firm level.&#160;Since VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure of market risk exposure and potential losses, and it is not used to estimate the impact of stressed market conditions or to manage any impact from potential stress events. In addition, based on their reliance on available historical data, limited time horizons, and other factors, VaR measures are inherently limited in their ability to measure certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe shifts in market conditions. For certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of appropriate historical data. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and other products when daily time series are not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based time series for these products, if available, would affect the VaR results presented. The Firm therefore considers other measures such as stress testing, in addition to VaR, to capture and manage its market risk positions.The daily market data used in VaR models may be different than the independent third-party data collected for VCG price testing in its monthly valuation process. For example, in cases where market prices are not observable, or where proxies are used in VaR historical time series, the data sources may differ (see Valuation process in Note 3 for further information on the Firm's valuation process). Because VaR model calculations require daily data and a consistent source for valuation, it may not be practical to use the data collected in the VCG monthly valuation process for VaR model calculations. The Firm's VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm's portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm's modeling techniques and measurements, and other factors. Such changes may affect historical comparisons of VaR results. For information regarding model reviews and approvals, see Model Risk Management on page 128.The Firm calculates separately a daily aggregated VaR in accordance with regulatory rules (&#8220;Regulatory VaR&#8221;), which is used to derive the Firm's regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III. This Regulatory VaR model framework currently assumes a ten business-day holding period and an expected tail loss methodology which approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is applied to &#8220;covered&#8221; positions as defined by Basel III, which may be different than the positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR. For example, credit derivative hedges of accrual loans are included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these credit derivative hedges. In addition, in contrast to the Firm's Risk Management VaR, Regulatory VaR currently excludes the diversification benefit for certain VaR models.For additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other components of market risk regulatory capital for the Firm (e.g. VaR-based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the respective backtesting), see JPMorgan Chase's Basel III &#160;Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website at: (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).The table below shows the results of the Firm's Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.As discussed on page 117, during the third quarter of 2016 the Firm refined the scope of positions included in Risk Management VaR. In the absence of these refinements, the average VaR, without diversification, for each of the following reported components would have been higher by the following amounts for the full year 2016: CIB Equities VaR by $3 million; CIB trading VaR by $2 million; CIB VaR by $3 million; Corporate VaR by $4 million; AWM VaR by $2 million; Other VaR by $4 million; and Total VaR by $3 million. Additionally, the Total VaR at December 31, 2016 would have been higher by $7 million in the absence of these refinements.Average Total VaR decreased $2 million for the full year ending December 31, 2016 as compared with the respective prior year period. The reduction in average Total VaR is due to the aforementioned scope changes as well as a lower risk profile in the Equities risk type. This was offset by changes in the risk profiles of the Foreign exchange and Fixed Income risk types. Additionally, average Credit portfolio VaR declined as a result of lower exposures arising from select positions. &#160;The Firm's average Total VaR diversification benefit was $8 million&#32;or 18%&#32;of the sum for 2016, compared with $10 million&#32;or 21%&#32;of the sum for 2015. The Firm continues to enhance its VaR model calculations and the time series inputs related to certain asset-backed products.VaR can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates, and diversification benefits change.VaR back-testingThe Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology by back-testing, which compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with the daily gains and losses recognized on market-risk related revenue.The Firm's definition of market risk-related gains and losses is consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators under Basel III. Under this definition market risk-related gains and losses are defined as: gains and losses on the positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation adjustments (e.g., liquidity and DVA), net interest income, and gains and losses arising from intraday trading.Management's discussion and analysisThe following chart compares the daily market risk-related gains and losses with the Firm's Risk Management VaR for the year ended December 31, 2016. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of back-testing disclosed in the Market Risk section of the Firm's Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered positions. The chart shows that for the year ended December 31, 2016 the Firm observed 5 VaR back-testing exceptions and posted Market-risk related gains on 151 of the 260 days in this period.Daily Market Risk-Related Gains and Lossesvs. Risk Management VaR (1-day, 95% Confidence level)Year ended&#32;December 31, 2016&#32;Market Risk-Related Gains and Losses &#32;Risk Management VaRFor the year ended December 31, 2016, there were 5 back-testing exceptions. The two exceptions that occurred towards the end of June 2016, subsequent to the U.K. referendum on membership in the European Union, reflect the elevated market volatility observed across multiple asset classes following the outcome of the vote.Other risk measures Economic-value stress testing Along with VaR, stress testing is an important tool in measuring and controlling risk. While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market behavior as an indicator of losses, stress testing is intended to capture the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm runs weekly stress tests on market-related risks across the lines of business using multiple scenarios that assume significant changes in risk factors such as credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices.The Firm uses a number of standard scenarios that capture different risk factors across asset classes including geographical factors, specific idiosyncratic factors and extreme tail events. The stress framework calculates multiple magnitudes of potential stress for both market rallies and market sell-offs for each risk factor and combines them in multiple ways to capture different market scenarios. For example, certain scenarios assess the potential loss arising from current exposures held by the Firm due to a broad sell off in bond markets or an extreme widening in corporate credit spreads. The flexibility of the stress testing framework allows risk managers to construct new, specific scenarios that can be used to form decisions about future possible stress events.&#32;Stress testing complements VaR by allowing risk managersto shock current market prices to more extreme levels relative to those historically realized, and to stress test the relationships between market prices under extreme scenarios. Stress scenarios are defined and reviewed by Market Risk Management, and significant changes are reviewed by the relevant LOB Risk Committees and may be redefined on a periodic basis to reflect current market conditions.Stress-test results, trends and qualitative explanations based on current market risk positions are reported to the respective LOBs and the Firm's senior management to allow them to better understand the sensitivity of positions to certain defined events and to enable them to manage their risks with more transparency. Results are also reported to the Board of Directors.&#32;The Firm's stress testing framework is utilized in calculating results under scenarios mandated by the Federal Reserve's CCAR and ICAAP processes. In addition, the results are incorporated into the quarterly assessment of the Firm's Risk Appetite Framework and are also presented to the DRPC.&#32;Nonstatistical risk measures&#32;Nonstatistical risk measures include sensitivities to variables used to value positions, such as credit spread sensitivities, interest rate basis point values and market values. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line of &#160;business and by risk type, and are also used for monitoring internal market risk limits.Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns are tools used to highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk tolerance. Profit and loss drawdowns are defined as the decline in net profit and loss since the year-to-date peak revenue level.Earnings-at-risk The VaR and sensitivity measures described above illustrate the economic sensitivity of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm's reported net income is also important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm's significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only from trading activities but also from the Firm's traditional banking activities, which include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt. The Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk exposure through earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which changes in interest rates will affect the Firm's net interest income and certain interest rate-sensitive fees. For a summary by line of business, identifying positions included in earnings-at-risk, see the table on page 117.The CTC Risk Committee establishes the Firm's structural interest rate risk policies and market risk limits, which are subject to approval by the DRPC. Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, calculates the Firm's structural interest rate risk profile and reviews it with senior management including the CTC Risk Committee and the Firm's&#32;ALCO. In addition, oversight of structural interest rate risk is managed through a dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC CRO. This risk function is responsible for providing independent oversight and governance around assumptions and establishing and monitoring limits for structural interest rate risk. The Firm manages structural interest rate risk generally through its investment securities portfolio and interest rate derivatives.&#32;Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of factors, including:Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated, firmwide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury and CIO through a transfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.The Firm generates a baseline for net interest income and certain interest rate sensitive fees, and then conducts simulations of changes for interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. dollar and other currencies (&#8220;non-U.S. dollar&#8221; currencies). Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change in this baseline, over the following 12 months utilizing multiple assumptions. These scenarios consider the impact on exposures as a result of changes in interest rates from baseline rates, as well as pricing sensitivities of deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The scenarios include forecasted balance sheet changes, as well as modeled prepayment and reinvestment behavior, but do not include assumptions about actions that could be taken by the Firm in response to any such instantaneous rate changes. Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on scenario interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historical experience. The Firm's earnings-at-risk scenarios are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm's balance sheet, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm's simulation and other factors.&#32;&#160;The Firm's U.S. dollar sensitivities are presented in the table below. The non-U.S. dollar sensitivity scenarios are not material to the Firm's earnings-at-risk at December 31, 2016 and 2015.&#32;The Firm's benefit to rising rates on U.S. dollar assets and liabilities is largely a result of reinvesting at higher yields and assets repricing at a faster pace than deposits. The Firm's net U.S. dollar sensitivity to a 200 bps and 100 bps instantaneous increase in rates decreased by approximately $1.2 billion and $700 million, respectively, when compared to December 31, 2015. The primary driver of that decrease was the updating of the Firm's baseline to reflect higher interest rates. As higher interest rates are reflected in the Firm's baselines, the magnitude of the sensitivity to further increases in rates would be expected to be less significant. The net change in mix in the Firm's spot and forecasted balance sheet also contributed to a decrease in the net U.S. dollar sensitivity when compared to December 31, 2015.Separately, another U.S. dollar interest rate scenario used by the Firm &#8212; involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels &#8212; results in a 12-month benefit to net interest income of approximately $800 million. The increase under this scenario reflects the Firm reinvesting at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged. The result of the comparable non-U.S. dollar scenario was not material to the Firm.Non-U.S. dollar foreign exchange riskNon-U.S. dollar FX risk is the risk that changes in foreign exchange rates affect the value of the Firm's assets or liabilities or future results. The Firm has structural non-U.S. dollar FX exposures arising from capital investments, forecasted expense and revenue, the investment securities portfolio and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt issuance. Treasury and CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, primarily manage these risks on behalf of the Firm.&#160;Treasury and CIO may hedge certain of these risks using derivatives within risk limits governed by the CTC Risk Committee.&#32;Other sensitivity-based measuresThe Firm quantifies the market risk of certain investment and funding activities by assessing the potential impact on net revenue and OCI due to changes in relevant market variables. For additional information on the positions captured in other sensitivity-based measures, please refer to the Risk identification and classification table on page 117.The table below represents the potential impact to net revenue or OCI for market risk sensitive instruments that are not included in VaR or earnings-at-risk. Where appropriate, instruments used for hedging purposes are reported along with the positions being hedged. The sensitivities disclosed in the table below may not be representative of the actual gain or loss that would have been realized at December&#160;31, 2016, as the movement in market parameters across maturities may vary and are not intended to imply management's expectation of future deterioration in these sensitivities.Management's discussion and analysisPrincipal investments are predominantly privately-held financial assets and instruments, typically representing ownership or junior capital positions, that have unique risks due to their illiquidity or for which there is less observable market or valuation data.&#32;Such positions are typically intended to be held over extended investment periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no expectation for short-term gain with respect to these investments.&#32;Principal investments cover multiple asset classes and are made either in stand-alone investing businesses or as part of a broader business platform. Asset classes include tax-oriented investments (e.g., affordable housing and alternative energy investments), private equity&#32;and various debt investments.&#32;Increasingly, new principal investment activity seeks to enhance or accelerate line of business strategic business initiatives.&#160;The Firm's principal investments are managed under various lines of business and are reflected within the respective LOBs financial results. The Firm's approach to managing principal risk is consistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk policy framework exists for all principal investing activities. All investments are approved by investment committees that include executives who are independent from the investing businesses. The Firm's independent control functions are responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying value of principal investments in accordance with relevant policies. Approved levels for such investments are established for each relevant business in order to manage the overall size of the portfolios. Industry, geographic and position level concentration limits are in place and are intended to ensure diversification of the portfolios. The Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios using specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant market moves and/or other risk events. Compliance risk is the risk of failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. OverviewEach line of business is accountable for managing its compliance risk. The Firm's Compliance Organization (&#8220;Compliance&#8221;), which is independent of the lines of business, works closely with senior management to provide independent review, monitoring and oversight of business operations with a focus on compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations applicable to the offering of the Firm's products and services to clients and customers.These compliance risks relate to a wide variety of legal and regulatory obligations, depending on the line of business and the jurisdiction, and include those related to products and services, relationships and interactions with clients and customers, and employee activities. For example, compliance risks include those associated with anti-money laundering compliance, trading activities, market conduct, and complying with the rules and regulations related to the offering of products and services across jurisdictional borders, among others. Other Functions such as Finance (including Tax), Technology and Human Resources provide oversight of significant regulatory obligations that are specific to their respective areas of responsibility.Compliance implements various practices designed to identify and mitigate compliance risk by establishing policies, testing, monitoring, training and providing guidance.In recent years, the Firm has experienced heightened scrutiny by its regulators of its compliance with regulations, and with respect to its controls and operational processes. In certain instances, the Firm has entered into Consent Orders with its regulators requiring the Firm to take certain specified actions to remediate compliance with regulations and improve its controls. The Firm expects that such regulatory scrutiny will continue. &#160;Governance and oversightCompliance is led by the Firms' CCO who reports, effective September 2016, to the Firm's CRO. The Firm maintains oversight and coordination of its Compliance Risk Management practices through the Firm's CCO, lines of business CCOs and regional CCOs to implement the Compliance program globally across the lines of business and regions. The Firm's CCO is a member of the FCC and the FRC. The Firm's CCO also provides regular updates to the Audit Committee and DRPC. In addition, from time to time, special committees of the Board have been established to oversee the Firm's compliance with regulatory Consent Orders. The Firm has in place a Code of Conduct (the &#8220;Code&#8221;), and each employee is given annual training in respect of the Code and is required annually to affirm his or her compliance with the Code. The Code sets forth the Firm's core principles and fundamental values, including that no employee should ever sacrifice integrity - or give the impression that he or she has. The Code requires prompt reporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation applicable to the Firm's business. It also requires the reporting of any illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the underlying principles of the Code, by any of the Firm's employees, customers, suppliers, contract workers, business partners, or agents. Specified employees are specially trained and designated as &#8220;code specialists&#8221; who act as a resource to employees on Code matters. In addition, concerns may be reported anonymously and the Firm prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith reporting of any actual or suspected violations of the Code. The Code and the associated employee compliance program are focused on the regular assessment of certain key aspects of the Firm's culture and conduct initiatives.&#160;Conduct risk is the risk that an employee's action or inaction causes undue harm to the Firm's clients and customers, damages market integrity, undermines the Firm's reputation, or negatively impacts the Firm's culture. OverviewEach line of business or function is accountable for identifying and managing its conduct risk to provide appropriate engagement, ownership and sustainability of a culture consistent with the Firm's How We Do Business Principles (&#8220;Principles&#8221;). The Principles serve as a guide for how employees are expected to conduct themselves. With the Principles serving as a guide, the Firm's Code sets out the Firm's expectations for each employee and provides certain information and the resources to help employees conduct business ethically and in compliance with the law everywhere the Firm operates. For further discussion of the Code, see Compliance Risk Management on page 125.Governance and oversightThe CMDC is the primary Board-level Committee that oversees the Firm's culture and conduct programs. The Audit Committee has responsibility to review the program established by management that monitors compliance with the Code. Additionally, the DRPC reviews, at least annually, the Firm's qualitative factors included in the Risk Appetite Framework, including conduct risk. The DRPC also meets annually with the CMDC to review and discuss aspects of the Firm's compensation practices. &#160;Conduct risk management is incorporated into various aspects of people management practices throughout the employee life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, performance management, promotion and compensation processes. Businesses undertake annual Risk and Control Self-Assessment (&#8220;RCSA&#8221;) assessments; and, as part of these RCSA reviews, they identify their respective key inherent operational risks (including conduct risks), evaluate the design and effectiveness of their controls, identify control gaps and develop associated action plans.&#160; &#160;The Firm's Know Your Employee framework generally addresses how the Firm manages, oversees and responds to workforce conduct related matters that may otherwise expose the Firm to financial, reputational, compliance and other operating risks. The Firm also has a HR Control Forum, the primary purpose of which is to discuss conduct and accountability for more significant risk and control issues and review, when appropriate, employee actions including but not limited to promotion and compensation actions.Legal risk is the risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, penalties or other liability arising from the failure to comply with a contractual obligation or to comply with laws, rules or regulations to which the Firm is subject.OverviewIn addition to providing legal services and advice to the Firm, and communicating and helping the lines of business adjust to the legal and regulatory changes they face, including the heightened scrutiny and expectations of the Firm's regulators, the global Legal function is responsible for working with the businesses and corporate functions to fully understand and assess their adherence to laws, rules and regulations. In particular, Legal assists Oversight & Control, Risk, Finance, Compliance and Internal Audit in their efforts to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the Firm's corporate standards for doing business. The Firm's lawyers also advise the Firm on potential legal exposures on key litigation and transactional matters, and perform a significant defense and advocacy role by defending the Firm against claims and potential claims and, when needed, pursuing claims against others. In addition, they advise the Firm's Conflicts Office which reviews the Firm's wholesale transactions that may have the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm.&#160;Governance and oversightThe Firm's General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a member of the Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk Committee and the FCC. The General Counsel's leadership team includes a General Counsel for each line of business, the heads of the Litigation and Corporate & Regulatory practices, as well as the Firm's Corporate Secretary. Each region (e.g., Latin America, Asia Pacific) has a General Counsel who is responsible for managing legal risk across all lines of business and functions in the region.Legal works with various committees (including new business initiative and reputation risk committees) and the Firm's businesses to protect the Firm's reputation beyond any particular legal requirements. Model risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs.&#32;The Firm uses models across various businesses and functions. The models are of varying levels of sophistication and are used for many purposes including, for example, the valuation of positions and the measurement of risk, such as assessing regulatory capital requirements, conducting stress testing, and making business decisions. Model risks are owned by the users of the models within the various businesses and functions in the Firm based on the specific purposes of such models. Users and developers of models are responsible for developing, implementing and testing their models, as well as referring models to the Model Risk function for review and approval. Once models have been approved, model users and developers are responsible for maintaining a robust operating environment, and must monitor and evaluate the performance of the models on an ongoing basis. Model users and developers may seek to enhance models in response to changes in the portfolios and in product and market developments, as well as to capture improvements in available modeling techniques and systems capabilities.&#32;The Model Risk function reviews and approves a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation and regulatory capital models used by the Firm. The Model Risk function is independent of model users and developers. The Firmwide Model Risk Executive reports to the Firm's CRO.&#160;Models are tiered based on an internal standard according to their complexity, the exposure associated with the model and the Firm's reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the approval of the Model Risk function. A model review conducted by the Model Risk function considers the model's suitability for the specific uses to which it will be put. The factors considered in reviewing a model include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of the product and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of model inputs, consistency with models for similar products, the appropriateness of any model-related adjustments, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the market. When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness of model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, including back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are approved by the appropriate level of management within the Model Risk function based on the relevant model tier.Under the Firm's Model Risk Policy, the Model Risk function reviews and approves new models, as well as material changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head of the Model Risk function may grant exceptions to the Firm's model risk policy to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The Model Risk function may also require the user to take appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions will depend on the model and may include, for example, limitation of trading activity.For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 132&#8211;134&#32;and Note 3.Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, human factors or due to external events that are neither market- nor credit-related.&#32;Operational risk is inherent in the Firm's activities and&#32;can manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate employee behavior, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure of vendors to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as other damages to the Firm. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels in light of the Firm's financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, and the markets and regulatory environments in which it operates.&#32;Operational Risk Management FrameworkTo monitor and control operational risk, the Firm has an Operational Risk Management Framework which is designed to enable the Firm to maintain a sound and well-controlled operational environment. The ORMF is comprised of four main components: Governance, Risk Assessment, Measurement, and Monitoring and Reporting. GovernanceThe lines of business and corporate functions are responsible for owning and managing their operational risks. The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group, which consists of control officers within each line of business and corporate function, is responsible for the day-to-day execution of the ORMF. Line of business and corporate function control committees oversee the operational risk and control environments of their respective businesses and functions. These committees escalate operational risk issues to the FCC, as appropriate. For additional information on the FCC, see Enterprise Risk Management on pages 71&#8211;75.The Firmwide Risk Executive for Operational Risk Governance (&#8220;ORG&#8221;), a direct report to the CRO, is responsible for defining the ORMF and establishing minimum standards for its execution. Operational Risk Officers report to both the line of business CROs and to the Firmwide Risk Executive for ORG, and are independent of the respective businesses or corporate functions they oversee.The Firm's Operational Risk Appetite Policy is approved by the DRPC. This policy establishes the Operational Risk Management Framework for the Firm. The assessments of operational risk using this framework are reviewed with the DRPC.Risk assessmentThe Firm utilizes several tools to identify, assess, mitigate and manage its operational risk. One such tool is the RCSA program which is executed by LOBs and corporate functions in accordance with the minimum standards established by ORG. As part of the RCSA program, lines of business and corporate functions identify key operational risks inherent in their activities, evaluate the effectiveness of relevant &#160;controls in place to mitigate identified risks, and define actions to reduce residual risk. Action plans are developed for identified control issues and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving issues in a timely manner. Operational Risk Officers independently challenge the execution of the RCSA program and evaluate the appropriateness of the residual risk results. In addition to the RCSA program, the Firm tracks and monitors events that have or could lead to actual operational risk losses, including litigation-related events. Responsible businesses and corporate functions analyze their losses to evaluate the efficacy of their control environment to assess where controls have failed, and to determine where targeted remediation efforts may be required. ORG provides oversight of these activities and may also perform independent assessments of significant operational risk events and areas of concentrated or emerging risk.MeasurementIn addition to the level of actual operational risk losses, operational risk measurement includes operational risk-based capital and operational risk losses under both baseline and stressed conditions.The primary component of the operational risk capital estimate is the Loss Distribution Approach (&#8220;LDA&#8221;) statistical model, which simulates the frequency and severity of future operational risk loss projections based on historical data. The LDA model is used to estimate an aggregate operational risk loss over a one-year time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. The LDA model incorporates actual internal operational risk losses in the quarter following the period in which those losses were realized, and the calculation generally continues to reflect such losses even after the issues or business activities giving rise to the losses have been remediated or reduced.As required under the Basel III capital framework, the Firm's operational risk-based capital methodology, which uses the Advanced Measurement Approach, incorporates internal and external losses as well as management's view of tail risk captured through operational risk scenario analysis, and evaluation of key business environment and internal control metrics. The Firm considers the impact of stressed economic conditions on operational risk losses and develops a forward looking view of material operational risk events that may occur in a stressed environment. The Firm's operational risk stress testing framework is utilized in calculating results for the Firm's CCAR and ICAAP processes.&#32;For information related to operational risk RWA, CCAR or ICAAP, see Capital Risk Management section, pages 76&#8211;85.Management's discussion and analysisMonitoring and reportingORG has established standards for consistent operational risk reporting. The standards also reinforce escalation protocols to senior management and to the Board of Directors. Operational risk reports are produced on a firmwide basis as well as by line of business and corporate function.Other operational risksAs mentioned previously, operational risk can manifest itself in various ways. Risks such as Compliance risk, Conduct risk, Legal risk and Model risk as well as other operational risks, can lead to losses which are captured through the Firm's operational risk measurement processes. More information on Compliance risk, Conduct risk, Legal risk and Model risk are discussed on pages 125, 126, 127&#32;and 128, respectively. Details on other select operational risks are provided below.Cybersecurity risk The Firm devotes significant resources to protect the security of the Firm's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets. The Firm's security efforts are intended to protect against cybersecurity attacks by unauthorized parties to obtain access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. The Firm continues to make significant investments in enhancing its cyber defense capabilities and to strengthen its partnerships with the appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and other businesses in order to understand the full spectrum of cybersecurity risks in the environment, enhance defenses and improve resiliency against cybersecurity threats. Third parties with which the Firm does business or that facilitate the Firm's business activities (e.g., vendors, exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and financial intermediaries) could also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm. Third party cybersecurity incidents such as system breakdowns or failures, misconduct by the employees of such parties, or cyberattacks could affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Firm or result in lost or compromised information of the Firm or its clients. Clients can also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly when their activities and systems are beyond the Firm's own security and control systems. However, where cybersecurity incidents are due to client failure to maintain the security of their own systems and processes, clients will generally be responsible for losses incurred. To protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the Firm's infrastructure, resources and information, the Firm leverages the ORMF to ensure risks are identified and managed within defined corporate tolerances.&#160;The Firm's Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are regularly briefed on the Firm's cybersecurity policies and practices as well as its efforts regarding significant cybersecurity events.Payment fraud riskPayment fraud risk is the risk of external and internal parties unlawfully obtaining personal benefit at the expense of the Firm. Over the past year, the risk of payment fraud has increased across the industry, with the number of &#160;attempts hitting record highs. The complexities of these attacks along with perpetrators' strategies continue to evolve. A Payments Control Program has been established that includes Cybersecurity, Operations, Technology, Risk and the lines of business to manage the risk, implement controls and provide client education and awareness training.&#160;The program monitors and measures payment fraud activity, evaluates the Firm's cybersecurity defenses, limits access to sensitive data, and provides training to both employees and clients. Third-party outsourcing riskTo identify and manage the operational risk inherent in its outsourcing activities, the Firm has a Third-Party Oversight (&#8220;TPO&#8221;) framework to assist lines of business and corporate functions&#160;in selecting, documenting, onboarding,&#160;monitoring and managing their supplier relationships. The objective of the TPO framework is to hold third parties to the same high level of operational performance as is expected of the Firm's internal operations. &#160;The Third-Party Oversight group is&#160;responsible for Firmwide TPO training, monitoring, reporting and standards.Business and technology resilience risk Business disruptions can occur due to forces beyond the Firm's control such as severe weather, power or telecommunications loss, flooding, transit strikes, terrorist threats or infectious disease. The safety of the Firm's employees and customers is of the highest priority. The Firm's global resiliency program is intended to ensure that the Firm has the ability to recover its critical business functions and supporting assets (i.e., staff, technology and facilities) in the event of a business interruption. The program includes corporate governance, awareness and training, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives to identify, assess, and manage business interruption and public safety risks.The strength and proficiency of the Firm's global resiliency program has played an integral role in maintaining the Firm's business operations during and quickly after various events.InsuranceOne of the ways operational loss may be mitigated is through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and regulations (e.g., workers compensation), as well as to serve other needs (e.g., property loss and public liability). Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.&#32;Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce trust in the Firm's integrity or competence by its various constituents, including clients, counterparties, investors, regulators, employees and the broader public. Maintaining the Firm's reputation is the responsibility of each individual employee of the Firm. The Firm's Reputation Risk Governance policy explicitly vests each employee with the responsibility to consider the reputation of the Firm when engaging in any activity. Since the types of events that could harm the Firm's reputation are so varied across the Firm's lines of business, each line of business has a separate reputation risk governance &#160;infrastructure in place, which consists of three key elements: clear, documented escalation criteria appropriate to the business; a designated primary discussion forum &#8212; in most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk committees; and a list of designated contacts, to whom questions relating to reputation risk should be referred. Line of business reputation risk governance is overseen by a Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance function which provides oversight of the governance infrastructure and process to support the consistent identification, escalation, management and monitoring of reputation risk issues firmwide.Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established policies and control procedures intended to ensure that estimation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities and the related business and risk management strategies, which may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm's wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying value of the Firm's loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet date. The allowance for credit losses includes a formula-based component, an asset-specific component, and a component related to PCI loans. The determination of each of these components involves significant judgment on a number of matters. For further discussion of these components, areas of judgment and methodologies used in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 15.Allowance for credit losses sensitivityThe Firm's allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors, which may differ depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the Firm's assumptions and estimates could affect its estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. The Firm uses its best judgment to assess these economic conditions and loss data in estimating the allowance for credit losses and these estimates are subject to periodic refinement based on changes to underlying external or Firm-specific historical data. The use of alternate estimates, data sources, adjustments to modeled loss estimates for model imprecision and other factors would result in a different estimated allowance for credit losses. &#160;To illustrate the potential magnitude of certain alternate judgments, the Firm estimates that changes in the following inputs would have the following effects on the Firm's modeled credit loss estimates as of December&#160;31, 2016, without consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm's allowance for loan losses:The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to imply management's expectation of future deterioration of those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of these modeled loss estimates based on then-current circumstances and conditions.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses because management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk factors related to its loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of the allowance for credit losses is appropriate.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including certain mortgage, home equity and other loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral.Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.ValuationDetails of the Firm's processes for determining fair value are set out in Note 3. Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.&#160;In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, the lack of observability of certain significant inputs requires management to assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see Note 3.For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's creditworthiness, market funding rates, liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. For further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Firm see Note 3.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios.The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or assumptions different than those used by the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm's valuation process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3.Goodwill impairment Under U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm's process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is described in Note 17.Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair value of its reporting units. Estimates of fair value are dependent upon estimates of (a) the future earnings potential of the Firm's reporting units, including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, (b) long-term growth rates and (c) the estimated market cost of equity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can affect the estimated fair value of the reporting units.Based upon the updated valuations for all of its reporting units, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated to its reporting units was not impaired at December 31, 2016. The fair values of these reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately 10% - 130% for all Management's discussion and analysisreporting units and did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations. The projections for all of the Firm's reporting units are consistent with management's current short-term business outlook assumptions, and in the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm's best estimates of long-term growth and returns on equity of its businesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark its assumptions and estimates.Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases in equity capital requirements, as well as deterioration in economic or market conditions, adverse estimates of regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the estimated market cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.For additional information on goodwill, see Note 17.Income taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how to interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as well as make judgments regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.JPMorgan Chase's interpretations of tax laws around the world are subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records additional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations, and business strategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm's estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm's results of operations in any reporting period.The Firm's provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in connection with certain NOLs and tax credits. The Firm &#160;performs regular reviews to ascertain whether its deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management's estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs before they expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined that a deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in a subsequent reporting period if the Firm determines that, based on revised estimates of future taxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not that all or part of the deferred tax asset will become realizable. As of December&#160;31, 2016, management has determined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net of the existing valuation allowance.JPMorgan Chase does not record U.S. federal income taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent management has determined such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. Changes to the income tax rates applicable to these non-U.S. subsidiaries may have a material impact on the effective tax rate in a future period if such changes were to occur.The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when additional information becomes available. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on its effective income tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs.For additional information on income taxes, see Note 26.Litigation reserves For a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves, see Note 31.Management's discussion and analysisManagement's discussion and analysisFrom time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;target,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;goal,&#8221; &#8220;believe,&#8221; or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase's current expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase's disclosures in this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the SEC. In addition, the Firm's senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to investors, analysts, representatives of the media and others.All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm's control. JPMorgan Chase's actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements:capital and liquidity requirements affecting the Firm's businesses, and the ability of the Firm to address those requirements;&#160;Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K.Management's report on internal control over financial reportingManagement of JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase&#8221; or the &#8220;Firm&#8221;) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Firm's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by JPMorgan Chase's Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.JPMorgan Chase's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the Firm's assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with authorizations of JPMorgan Chase's management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Firm's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the Firm's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2016. In making the assessment, management used the &#8220;Internal Control &#8212; Integrated Framework&#8221; (&#8220;COSO 2013&#8221;) promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (&#8220;COSO&#8221;).&#160;Based upon the assessment performed, management concluded that as of December&#160;31, 2016, JPMorgan Chase's internal control over financial reporting was effective based upon the COSO 2013 framework. Additionally, based upon management's assessment, the Firm determined that there were no material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2016.The effectiveness of the Firm's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2016, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.James DimonChairman and Chief Executive OfficerMarianne LakeExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerFebruary&#160;28, 2017&#32;Report of independent registered public accounting firmTo the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries (the &#8220;Firm&#8221;)&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Firm maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;based on criteria established in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013)&#32;issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Firm's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying &#8220;Management's report on internal control over financial reporting&#8221;. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Firm's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal &#160;control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.February&#160;28, 2017Consolidated statements of incomeThe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.Consolidated statements of comprehensive incomeThe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.Consolidated balance sheetsThe assets of the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm provided limited program-wide credit enhancement of $2.4 billion&#32;and $2.0 billion, respectively, related to its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, which are eliminated in consolidation. For further discussion, see Note 16.The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equityThe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.Consolidated statements of cash flowsThe Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 1 &#8211; Basis of presentation JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase&#8221; or the &#8220;Firm&#8221;), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the U.S., with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. For a discussion of the Firm's business segments, see Note 33.The accounting and financial reporting policies of&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;and its subsidiaries conform to&#32;U.S. GAAP. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities.Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.&#32;Consolidation&#32;&#32;The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of&#32;JPMorgan Chase and other entities in which&#32;the Firm has a controlling financial interest. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by&#32;the Firm are not assets of&#32;JPMorgan Chase and are not included on the Consolidated balance sheets.The Firm determines whether it has a controlling financial interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest entity or a variable interest entity.&#32;Effective January 1, 2016,&#32;the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to the consolidation of legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. The guidance eliminated the deferral issued by the&#32;FASB in February 2010 of the&#32;accounting guidance for VIEs for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. In addition, the guidance amends the evaluation of fees paid to a decision-maker or a service provider, and exempts certain money market funds from consolidation. Furthermore, asset management funds structured as limited partnerships or certain limited liability companies are now evaluated for consolidation as voting interest entities if the non-managing partners or members have the ability to remove&#32;the Firm as the general partner or managing member without cause (i.e., kick-out rights) based on a simple majority vote, or the non-affiliated partners or members have rights to participate in important decisions. Accordingly,&#32;the Firm does not consolidate these voting interest entities. However, in the limited cases where the non-managing partners or members do not have substantive kick-out or participating rights,&#32;the Firm evaluates the funds as VIEs and consolidates if it is the general partner or managing member and has a potentially significant variable interest. There was no material impact on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated &#160;Financial Statements upon adoption of this accounting guidance.&#32;Voting Interest EntitiesVoting interest entities are entities that have sufficient equity and provide the equity investors voting rights that enable them to make significant decisions relating to the entity's operations. For these types of entities,&#32;the Firm's determination of whether it has a controlling interest is primarily based on the amount of voting equity interests held. Entities in which&#32;the Firm has a controlling financial interest, through ownership of the majority of the entities' voting equity interests, or through other contractual rights that give&#32;the Firm control, are consolidated by&#32;the Firm.Investments in companies in which&#32;the Firm has significant influence over operating and financing decisions (but does not own a majority of the voting equity interests) are accounted for (i)&#160;in accordance with the equity method of accounting (which requires&#32;the Firm to recognize its proportionate share of the entity's net earnings), or (ii)&#160;at fair value if the fair value option was elected. These investments are generally included in other assets, with income or loss included in other income.Certain&#32;Firm-sponsored asset management funds are structured as limited partnerships or limited liability companies.&#32;For many of these entities, the Firm is the general partner or managing member, but the non-affiliated partners or members have the ability to remove the Firm as the general partner or managing member without cause (i.e., kick-out rights), based on a simple majority vote, or the non-affiliated partners or members have rights to participate in important decisions. Accordingly, the Firm does not consolidate these funds. In the limited cases where the nonaffiliated partners or members do not have substantive kick-out or participating rights, the Firm consolidates the funds.The Firm's investment companies have investments in both publicly-held and privately-held entities, including investments in buyouts, growth equity and venture opportunities. These investments are accounted for under investment company guidelines and accordingly, irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interests held, are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value, and are recorded in other assets.Variable Interest Entities&#32;VIEs are entities that, by design, either (1)&#160;lack sufficient equity to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) have equity investors that do not have the ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity's operations through voting rights, or do not have the obligation to absorb the expected losses, or do not have the right to receive the residual returns of the entity.The most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors. The legal documents that govern the transaction specify how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the SPE's investors and other parties that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs are generally structured to insulate investors from claims on the SPE's assets by creditors of other entities, including the creditors of the seller of the assets.&#32;The primary beneficiary of a VIE (i.e., the party that has a controlling financial interest) is required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of the VIE. The primary beneficiary is the party that has both (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance; and (2) through its interests in the VIE, the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE.To assess whether&#32;the Firm has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance,&#32;the Firm considers all the facts and circumstances, including its role in establishing the VIE and its ongoing rights and responsibilities. This assessment includes, first, identifying the activities that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance; and second, identifying which party, if any, has power over those activities. In general, the parties that make the most significant decisions affecting the VIE (such as asset managers, collateral managers, servicers, or owners of call options or liquidation rights over the VIE's assets) or have the right to unilaterally remove those decision-makers are deemed to have the power to direct the activities of a VIE.To assess whether&#32;the Firm has the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE,&#32;the Firm considers all of its economic interests, including debt and equity investments, servicing fees, and derivatives or other arrangements deemed to be variable interests in the VIE. This assessment requires that&#32;the Firm apply judgment in determining whether these interests, in the aggregate, are considered potentially significant to the VIE. Factors considered in assessing significance include: the design of the VIE, including its capitalization structure; subordination of interests; payment priority; relative share of interests held across various classes within the VIE's capital structure; and the reasons why the interests are held by&#32;the Firm.The Firm performs on-going reassessments of: (1) whether entities previously evaluated under the majority voting-interest framework have become VIEs, based on certain events, and therefore subject to the VIE consolidation framework; and (2)&#160;whether changes in the facts and circumstances regarding&#32;the Firm's involvement with a VIE cause&#32;the Firm's consolidation conclusion to change.&#160;Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated financial statementsThe preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenue and expense, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these estimates.Foreign currency translationJPMorgan Chase revalues assets, liabilities, revenue and expense denominated in non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars using applicable exchange rates.Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial statements for U.S. reporting are included in&#32;OCI within stockholders' equity. Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency transactions, including non-U.S. operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported in the Consolidated statements of income.Offsetting assets and liabilitiesU.S. GAAP permits entities to present derivative receivables and derivative payables with the same counterparty and the related cash collateral receivables and payables on a net basis on the Consolidated balance sheets when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. U.S. GAAP also permits securities sold and purchased under repurchase agreements to be presented net when specified conditions are met, including the existence of a legally enforceable master netting agreement.&#32;The Firm has elected to net such balances when the specified conditions are met.The Firm uses master netting agreements&#32;to mitigate counterparty credit risk in certain transactions, including derivatives transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowed and loaned agreements. A master netting agreement is a single contract with a counterparty that permits multiple transactions governed by that contract to be terminated and settled through a single payment in a single currency in the event of a default (e.g., bankruptcy, failure to make a required payment or securities transfer or deliver collateral or margin when due after expiration of any grace period). Upon the exercise of termination rights by the non-defaulting party (i) all transactions are terminated, (ii) all transactions are valued and the positive value or &#8220;in the money&#8221; transactions are netted against the negative value or &#8220;out of the money&#8221; transactions and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount. Upon exercise of repurchase agreement and securities loan default rights in general (i) all transactions are terminated and accelerated, (ii) all values of securities or cash held or to be delivered are calculated, and all such sums are netted against each other and (iii) the only remaining payment obligation is of one of the parties to pay the netted termination amount.Notes to consolidated financial statementsTypical master netting agreements for these types of transactions also often contain a collateral/margin agreement that provides for a security interest in, or title transfer of, securities or cash collateral/margin to the party that has the right to demand margin (the &#8220;demanding party&#8221;). The collateral/margin agreement typically requires a party to transfer collateral/margin to the demanding party with a value equal to the amount of the margin deficit on a net basis across all transactions governed by the master netting agreement, less any threshold. The collateral/margin agreement grants to the demanding party, upon default by the counterparty, the right to set-off any amounts payable by the counterparty against any posted collateral or the cash equivalent of any posted collateral/margin. It also grants to the demanding party the right to liquidate collateral/margin and to apply the proceeds to an amount payable by the counterparty.For further discussion of&#32;the Firm's derivative instruments, see Note&#32;6. For further discussion of&#32;the Firm's repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending agreements, see Note&#32;13.Statements of cash flowsFor&#32;JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated statements of cash flows, cash is defined as those amounts included in cash and due from banks.Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies&#32;JPMorgan Chase's other significant accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed description of each policy can be found.&#160;Note 2 &#8211; Business changes and developmentsNoneNote 3 &#8211; Fair value measurementJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. These assets and liabilities are predominantly carried at fair value on a recurring basis (i.e., assets and liabilities that are measured and reported at fair value on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets). Certain assets (e.g., certain mortgage, home equity and other loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral), liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment).Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is based on quoted market prices or inputs, where available. If prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based on models that consider relevant transaction characteristics (such as maturity) and use as inputs observable or unobservable market parameters, including but not limited to yield curves, interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value, as described below.&#32;The level of precision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while&#32;the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across&#32;the Firm's businesses and portfolios.&#32;The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of different methodologies or assumptions by other market participants compared with those used by&#32;the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date.&#32;Valuation process&#32;Risk-taking functions are responsible for providing fair value estimates for assets and liabilities carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.&#32;The Firm's VCG, which is part of&#32;the Firm's Finance function and independent of the risk-taking functions, is responsible for verifying these estimates and determining any fair value adjustments that may be required to ensure that&#32;the Firm's&#32;positions are recorded at fair value. The VGF is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising from valuation activities conducted across&#32;the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the Firmwide head of the VCG (under the direction of&#32;the Firm's Controller), and includes sub-forums covering the&#32;CIB, CCB, CB, AWM and certain corporate functions including Treasury and&#32;CIO. &#160;Price verification process&#32;The VCG verifies fair value estimates provided by the risk-taking functions by leveraging independently derived prices, valuation inputs and other market data, where available. Where independent prices or inputs are not available, the VCG performs additional review to ensure the reasonableness of the estimates. The additional review may include evaluating the limited market activity including client unwinds, benchmarking valuation inputs to those used for similar instruments, decomposing the valuation of structured instruments into individual components, comparing expected to actual cash flows, reviewing profit and loss trends, and reviewing trends in collateral valuation. There are also additional levels of management review for more significant or complex positions.The VCG determines any valuation adjustments that may be required to the estimates provided by the risk-taking functions. No adjustments are applied for instruments classified within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy (see below for further information on the fair value hierarchy). For other positions, judgment is required to assess the need for valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and, for certain portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The determination of such adjustments follows a consistent framework across&#32;the Firm:Notes to consolidated financial statementsbe implied from observable market data. Such prices or parameters must be estimated and are, therefore, subject to management judgment. Unobservable parameter valuation adjustments are applied to reflect the uncertainty inherent in the resulting valuation estimate.&#32;Valuation model review and approval&#32;If prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a similar instrument, fair value is generally determined using valuation models that consider relevant transaction data such as maturity and use as inputs market-based or independently sourced parameters. Where this is the case the price verification process described above is applied to the inputs to those models.&#32;The Model Risk function reviews and approves a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation, and regulatory capital models used by&#32;the Firm. The Model Risk function is independent of model users and developers. The Firmwide Model Risk Executive reports to&#32;the Firm's CRO. When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model methodology, and the reasonableness of model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, including back-testing of model outcomes.&#32;The Model Risk function reviews and approves new models, as well as material changes to existing models, prior to implementation in the operating environment. In certain circumstances, the head of the Model Risk function may grant exceptions to&#32;the Firm's model risk policy to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. The Model Risk function may also require the user to take appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim.&#32;&#160;Valuation hierarchy&#32;A three-level valuation hierarchy has been established under U.S. GAAP for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation hierarchy is based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows.&#32;A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.The following table describes the valuation methodologies generally used by&#32;the Firm to measure its significant products/instruments at fair value, including the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsNotes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table presents the assets and liabilities reported at fair value as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, by major product category and fair value hierarchy.Notes to consolidated financial statementsTransfers between levels for instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis&#32;For the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, there were no significant transfers between levels 1 and 2.During the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, transfers from level 3 to level 2 included the following:During the year ended December&#160;31, 2016, transfers from level 2 to level 3 included the following:During the year ended December&#160;31, 2015, transfers from level 3 to level 2 included the following:&#160;During the year ended December&#160;31, 2015, transfers from level 2 to level 3 included the following:During the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, transfers from level 3 to level 2 included the following:All transfers are assumed to occur at the beginning of the quarterly reporting period in which they occur.Level 3 valuationsThe Firm has established well-structured processes for determining fair value, including for instruments where fair value is estimated using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). For further information on&#32;the Firm's valuation process and a detailed discussion of the determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see&#32;pages 150&#8211;153&#32;of this Note.&#32;Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to&#32;the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.&#32;In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack of observability of significant inputs, management must assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs including, but not limited to, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment speed, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves.&#32;The following table presents&#32;the Firm's primary level 3 financial instruments, the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, the significant unobservable inputs, the range of values for those inputs and, for certain instruments, the weighted averages of such inputs. While the determination to classify an instrument within level 3 is based on the significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement, level 3 financial instruments typically include observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources) in addition to the unobservable components. The level 1 and/or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In addition,&#32;the Firm manages the risk of the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.&#32;The range of values presented in the table is representative of the highest and lowest level input used to value the significant groups of instruments within a product/instrument classification. Where provided, the weighted averages of the input values presented in the table are calculated based on the fair value of the instruments that the input is being used to value.&#32;&#160;In&#32;the Firm's view, the input range and the weighted average value do not reflect the degree of input uncertainty or an assessment of the reasonableness of&#32;the Firm's estimates and assumptions. Rather, they reflect the characteristics of the various instruments held by&#32;the Firm and the relative distribution of instruments within the range of characteristics. For example, two option contracts may have similar levels of market risk exposure and valuation uncertainty, but may have significantly different implied volatility levels because the option contracts have different underlyings, tenors, or strike prices. The input range and weighted average values will therefore vary from period-to-period and parameter-to-parameter based on the characteristics of the instruments held by&#32;the Firm at each balance sheet date.&#32;For&#32;the Firm's derivatives and structured notes positions classified within level 3 at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, interest rate correlation inputs used in estimating fair value were concentrated towards the upper end of the range presented; equity correlation inputs were concentrated at the upper end of the range;&#32;the credit correlation inputs were distributed across the range presented; and the foreign exchange correlation inputs were concentrated at the upper end of the range presented. In addition, the interest rate volatility inputs used in estimating fair value were distributed across the range presented; equity volatilities were concentrated in the lower half end of the range; and forward commodity prices used in estimating the fair value of commodity derivatives were concentrated in the middle of the range presented.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsChanges in and ranges of unobservable inputs&#32;The following discussion provides a description of the impact on a fair value measurement of a change in each unobservable input in isolation, and the interrelationship between unobservable inputs, where relevant and significant. The impact of changes in inputs may not be independent, as a change in one unobservable input may give rise to a change in another unobservable input. Where relationships do exist between two unobservable inputs, those relationships are discussed below. Relationships may also exist between observable and unobservable inputs (for example, as observable interest rates rise, unobservable prepayment rates decline); such relationships have not been included in the discussion below. In addition, for each of the individual relationships described below, the inverse relationship would also generally apply.&#32;The following discussion also provides a description of attributes of the underlying instruments and external market factors that affect the range of inputs used in the valuation of&#32;the Firm's positions.&#32;Yield &#8211; The yield of an asset is the interest rate used to discount future cash flows in a discounted cash flow calculation. An increase in the yield, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.&#32;Credit spread &#8211; The credit spread is the amount of additional annualized return over the market interest rate that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument. The credit spread for an instrument forms part of the discount rate used in a discounted cash flow calculation. Generally, an increase in the credit spread would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.&#32;The yield and the credit spread of a particular mortgage-backed security primarily reflect the risk inherent in the instrument. The yield is also impacted by the absolute level of the coupon paid by the instrument (which may not correspond directly to the level of inherent risk). Therefore, the range of yield and credit spreads reflects the range of risk inherent in various instruments owned by&#32;the Firm. The risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities is driven by the subordination of the security being valued and the characteristics of the underlying mortgages within the collateralized pool, including borrower FICO scores,&#32;LTV ratios for residential mortgages and the nature of the property and/or any tenants for commercial mortgages. For corporate debt securities, obligations of U.S. states and municipalities and other similar instruments, credit spreads reflect the credit quality of the obligor and the tenor of the obligation.&#32;&#160;Prepayment speed &#8211; The prepayment speed is a measure of the voluntary unscheduled principal repayments of a prepayable obligation in a collateralized pool. Prepayment speeds generally decline as borrower delinquencies rise. An increase in prepayment speeds, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement of assets valued at a premium to par and an increase in a fair value measurement of assets valued at a discount to par.&#32;Prepayment speeds may vary from collateral pool to collateral pool, and are driven by the type and location of the underlying borrower, and the remaining tenor of the obligation as well as the level and type (e.g., fixed or floating) of interest rate being paid by the borrower. Typically collateral pools with higher borrower credit quality have a higher prepayment rate than those with lower borrower credit quality, all other factors being equal.&#32;Conditional default rate &#8211; The conditional default rate is a measure of the reduction in the outstanding collateral balance underlying a collateralized obligation as a result of defaults. While there is typically no direct relationship between conditional default rates and prepayment speeds, collateralized obligations for which the underlying collateral has high prepayment speeds will tend to have lower conditional default rates. An increase in conditional default rates would generally be accompanied by an increase in loss severity and an increase in credit spreads. An increase in the conditional default rate, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement. Conditional default rates reflect the quality of the collateral underlying a securitization and the structure of the securitization itself. Based on the types of securities owned in&#32;the Firm's market-making portfolios, conditional default rates are most typically at the lower end of the range presented.&#32;Loss severity &#8211; The loss severity (the inverse concept is the recovery rate) is the expected amount of future realized losses resulting from the ultimate liquidation of a particular loan, expressed as the net amount of loss relative to the outstanding loan balance. An increase in loss severity is generally accompanied by an increase in conditional default rates. An increase in the loss severity, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.&#32;The loss severity applied in valuing a mortgage-backed security investment depends on factors relating to the underlying mortgages, including the LTV ratio, the nature of the lender's lien on the property and other instrument-specific factors.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsCorrelation &#8211; Correlation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables (e.g., how the change in one variable influences the change in the other). Correlation is a pricing input for a derivative product where the payoff is driven by one or more underlying risks. Correlation inputs are related to the type of derivative&#32;(e.g., interest rate, credit, equity and foreign exchange) due to the nature of the underlying risks. When parameters are positively correlated, an increase in one parameter will result in an increase in the other parameter. When parameters are negatively correlated, an increase in one parameter will result in a decrease in the other parameter. An increase in correlation can result in an increase or a decrease in a fair value measurement. Given a short correlation position, an increase in correlation, in isolation, would generally result in a decrease in a fair value measurement. The range of correlation inputs between risks within the same asset class are generally narrower than those between underlying risks across asset classes. In addition, the ranges of credit correlation inputs tend to be narrower than those affecting other asset classes.The level of correlation used in the valuation of derivatives with multiple underlying risks depends on a number of factors including the nature of those risks. For example, the correlation between two credit risk exposures would be different than that between two interest rate risk exposures. Similarly, the tenor of the transaction may also impact the correlation input, as the relationship between the underlying risks may be different over different time periods. Furthermore, correlation levels are very much dependent on market conditions and could have a relatively wide range of levels within or across asset classes over time, particularly in volatile market conditions.&#32;Volatility &#8211; Volatility is a measure of the variability in possible returns for an instrument, parameter or market index given how much the particular instrument, parameter or index changes in value over time. Volatility is a pricing input for options, including equity options, commodity options, and interest rate options. Generally, the higher the volatility of the underlying, the riskier the instrument. Given a long position in an option, an increase in volatility, in isolation, would generally result in an increase in a fair value measurement.&#32;The level of volatility used in the valuation of a particular option-based derivative depends on a number of factors, including the nature of the risk underlying the option (e.g., the volatility of a particular equity security may be significantly different from that of a particular commodity index), the tenor of the derivative as well as the strike price of the option.&#32;&#160;EBITDA multiple &#8211; EBITDA multiples refer to the input (often derived from the value of a comparable company) that is multiplied by the historic and/or expected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (&#8220;EBITDA&#8221;) of a company in order to estimate the company's value. An increase in the EBITDA multiple, in isolation, net of adjustments, would result in an increase in a fair value measurement.Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements&#32;The following tables include a rollforward of the Consolidated balance sheets amounts (including changes in fair value) for financial instruments classified by&#32;the Firm within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014. When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within level 3, the determination is based on the significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or level 3 components, observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also,&#32;the Firm risk-manages the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the following tables do not reflect the effect of&#32;the Firm's risk management activities related to such level 3 instruments.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNotes to consolidated financial statementsLevel 3 analysis Consolidated balance sheets changes&#32;Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were&#32;1.0%&#32;of total Firm assets at December&#160;31, 2016. The following describes significant changes to level 3 assets since&#32;December 31, 2015, for those items measured at fair value on a recurring basis. For further information on changes impacting items measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, see Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis on&#32;page 165.For the year ended December&#160;31, 2016Level 3 assets were $23.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016, reflecting a decrease of $8.0 billion&#32;from December 31, 2015. This decrease was driven by settlements (including repayments and restructurings) and transfers to Level 2 due to an increase in observability and a decrease in the significance of unobservable inputs. In particular:Gains and losses&#32;The following describes significant components of total realized/unrealized gains/(losses) for instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014. For further information on these instruments, see Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurements rollforward tables on&#32;pages 160&#8211;164.20162015&#160;2014Credit and funding adjustments &#8211; derivativesDerivatives are generally valued using models that use as their basis observable market parameters. These market parameters generally do not consider factors such as counterparty nonperformance risk, the Firm's own credit quality, and funding costs. Therefore, it is generally necessary to make adjustments to the base estimate of fair value to reflect these factors.CVA represents the adjustment, relative to the relevant benchmark interest rate, necessary to reflect counterparty nonperformance risk. The Firm estimates CVA using a scenario analysis to estimate the expected credit exposure across all of the Firm's positions with each counterparty, and then estimates losses as a result of a counterparty credit event. The key inputs to this methodology are (i) the expected positive exposure to each counterparty based on a simulation that assumes the current population of existing derivatives with each counterparty remains unchanged and considers contractual factors designed to mitigate the Firm's credit exposure, such as collateral and legal rights of offset; (ii) the probability of a default event occurring for each counterparty, as derived from observed or estimated CDS spreads; and (iii) estimated recovery rates implied by CDS spreads, adjusted to consider the differences in recovery rates as a derivative creditor relative to those reflected in CDS spreads, which generally reflect senior unsecured creditor risk.DVA represents the adjustment, relative to the relevant benchmark interest rate, necessary to reflect the credit quality of the Firm. The derivative DVA calculation methodology is generally consistent with the CVA methodology described above and incorporates JPMorgan Chase's credit spread as observed through the CDS market to estimate the PD and LGD as a result of a systemic event affecting the Firm.FVA represents the adjustment to reflect the impact of funding and is recognized where there is evidence that a market participant in the principal market would incorporate it in a transfer of the instrument. The Firm's FVA framework, applied to uncollateralized (including partially collateralized) OTC derivatives, leverages its existing CVA and DVA calculation methodologies, and considers the fact that the Firm's own credit risk is a significant component of funding costs. The key inputs to FVA are: (i) the expected funding requirements arising from the Firm's positions with each counterparty and collateral arrangements; (ii) for assets, the estimated market funding cost in the principal market; and (iii) for liabilities, the hypothetical market funding cost for a transfer to a market participant with a similar credit standing as the Firm. For collateralized derivatives, the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows at the relevant overnight indexed swap rate given the underlying collateral agreement with the counterparty, and therefore a separate FVA is not necessary.The following table provides the impact of credit and funding adjustments on principal transactions revenue in the respective periods, excluding the effect of any associated hedging activities. The DVA and FVA reported below include the impact of the Firm's own credit quality on the inception value of liabilities as well as the impact of changes in the Firm's own credit quality over time.Valuation adjustments on fair value option elected liabilitiesThe valuation of the Firm's liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected requires consideration of the Firm's own credit risk. DVA on fair value option elected liabilities is measured using (i) the current fair value of the liability and (ii) changes (subsequent to the issuance of the liability) in the Firm's probability of default and LGD, which are estimated based on changes in the Firm's credit spread observed in the bond market. Effective January 1, 2016, the effect of DVA on fair value option elected liabilities is recognized in OCI. See Note 25 for further information. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were&#32;$1.6 billion&#32;and $1.7 billion, respectively, consisting predominantly of loans that had fair value adjustments for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, $735 million&#32;and $822 million&#32;of these assets were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. At&#32;December&#160;31, 2015, $696 million&#32;and $959 million&#32;of these assets were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were not significant at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. For the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, there were no significant transfers between levels 1, 2&#32;and 3 related to assets held at the balance sheet date.Of the&#32;$822 million&#32;in level 3 assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016:&#160;guidance). These amounts are classified as level 3, as they are valued using a broker's price opinion and discounted based upon&#32;the Firm's experience with actual liquidation values. These discounts to the broker price opinions ranged from&#32;12%&#32;to 47%,&#32;with a weighted average of&#32;25%.The total change in the recorded value of assets and liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been included in the Consolidated statements of income for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, related to financial instruments held at those dates, were losses of&#32;$172 million, $294 million&#32;and $992 million&#32;respectively; these reductions were predominantly associated with loans.&#32;For further information about the measurement of impaired collateral-dependent loans, and other loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral (e.g., residential mortgage loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance), see Note&#32;14.Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value&#32;U.S. GAAP requires disclosure of the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments, and the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value. Financial instruments within the scope of these disclosure requirements are included in the following table. However, certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excluded from the scope of these disclosure requirements. Accordingly, the fair value disclosures provided in the following table include only a partial estimate of the fair value of&#32;JPMorgan Chase's assets and liabilities. For example,&#32;the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its customers through its deposit base and credit card accounts, commonly referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships. In the opinion of management, these items, in the aggregate, add significant value to&#32;JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.Financial instruments for which carrying value approximates fair value&#32;Certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets are carried at amounts that approximate fair value, due to their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk. These instruments include cash and due from banks, deposits with banks, federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable, commercial paper, federal funds purchased, securities loaned and sold under repurchase agreements, other borrowed funds, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities. In addition, U.S. GAAP requires that the fair value of deposit liabilities with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain money market deposits) be equal to their carrying value; recognition of the inherent funding value of these instruments is not permitted.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table presents by fair value hierarchy classification the carrying values and estimated fair values at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, of financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, and their classification within the fair value hierarchy. For additional information regarding the financial instruments within the scope of this disclosure, and the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value, see&#32;pages 150&#8211;153&#32;of this Note.The majority of&#32;the Firm's lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated balance sheets, nor are they actively traded. The carrying value of the wholesale allowance for lending-related commitments and the estimated fair value of&#32;these wholesale lending-related commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases,&#32;the Firm can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice. For a further discussion of the valuation of lending-related commitments, see&#32;page 151&#32;of this Note.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 4 &#8211; Fair value optionThe fair value option provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan commitments.The Firm has elected to measure certain instruments at fair value for several reasons including to mitigate income statement volatility caused by the differences between the measurement basis of elected instruments (e.g. certain instruments elected were previously accounted for on an accrual basis) and the associated risk management arrangements that are accounted for on a fair value basis, as well as to&#32;better reflect those instruments that are managed on a fair value basis.&#32;&#160;The Firm's election of fair value includes the following instruments:&#32;Changes in fair value under the fair value option election&#32;The following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated statements of income for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsDetermination of instrument-specific credit risk for items for which a fair value election was made&#32;The following describes how the gains and losses that are attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, were determined.&#32;&#160;Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding&#32;The following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the fair value option has been elected.&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the contractual amount of lending-related commitments for which the fair value option was elected was&#32;$4.6 billion&#32;for both years, with a corresponding fair value of&#32;$(118) million&#32;and $(94) million, respectively. For further information regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, see Note&#32;29.Structured note products by balance sheet classification and risk componentThe table below presents the fair value of the structured notes issued by the Firm, by balance sheet classification and the primary risk type.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 5 &#8211; Credit risk concentrationsConcentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region, or when they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.JPMorgan Chase&#32;regularly monitors various segments of its credit portfolios to assess potential credit risk concentrations and to obtain collateral when deemed necessary. Senior management is significantly involved in the credit approval and review process, and risk levels are adjusted as needed to reflect&#32;the Firm's&#32;risk appetite.&#160;In&#32;the Firm's consumer portfolio, concentrations are evaluated primarily by product and by U.S. geographic region, with a key focus on trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, where potential credit risk concentrations can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. In the wholesale portfolio, credit risk concentrations are evaluated primarily by industry and monitored regularly on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis.&#32;The Firm's wholesale exposure is managed through loan syndications and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives, master netting agreements, and collateral and other risk-reduction techniques. For additional information on loans, see Note&#32;14.The Firm does not believe that its exposure to any particular loan product (e.g., option&#32;ARMs), or industry segment (e.g., commercial real estate), or its exposure to residential real estate loans with high LTV ratios, results in a significant concentration of credit risk.&#32;Terms of loan products and collateral coverage are included in&#32;the Firm's assessment when extending credit and establishing its allowance for loan losses.&#32;The table below presents both on&#8211;balance sheet and off&#8211;balance sheet consumer and wholesale-related credit exposure by&#32;the Firm's three credit portfolio segments as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 6 &#8211; Derivative instruments Derivative contracts derive their value from underlying asset prices, indices, reference rates, other inputs or a combination of these factors and may expose counterparties to risks and rewards of an underlying asset or liability without having to initially invest in, own or exchange the asset or liability.&#32;JPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for clients and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its own risk exposures. Predominantly all of&#32;the Firm's derivatives are entered into for market-making or risk management purposes.&#32;Market-making derivatives&#32;The majority of&#32;the Firm's derivatives are entered into for market-making purposes. Clients use derivatives to mitigate or modify interest rate, credit, foreign exchange, equity and commodity risks.&#32;The Firm actively manages the risks from its exposure to these derivatives by entering into other derivative transactions or by purchasing or selling other financial instruments that partially or fully offset the exposure from client derivatives.&#32;Risk management derivatives&#32;The Firm manages certain market and credit risk exposures using derivative instruments, including derivatives in hedge accounting relationships and other derivatives that are used to manage risks associated with specified assets and liabilities.&#32;Interest rate contracts are used to minimize fluctuations in earnings that are caused by changes in interest rates. Fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value as interest rates change. Similarly, interest income and expense increases or decreases as a result of variable-rate assets and liabilities resetting to current market rates, and as a result of the repayment and subsequent origination or issuance of fixed-rate assets and liabilities at current market rates. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are related to such assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this variability in earnings.&#32;The Firm generally uses interest rate swaps, forwards and futures to manage the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings.&#32;Foreign currency forward contracts are used to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency&#8211;denominated (i.e., non-U.S. dollar) assets and liabilities and forecasted transactions, as well as&#32;the Firm's net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. As a result of fluctuations in foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar&#8211;equivalent values of the foreign currency&#8211;denominated assets and liabilities or the forecasted revenues or expenses increase or decrease. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments related to these foreign currency&#8211;denominated assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions, are expected to substantially offset this variability.&#32;&#160;Commodities contracts are used to manage the price risk of certain commodities inventories. Gains or losses on these derivative instruments are expected to substantially offset the depreciation or appreciation of the related inventory.&#32;Credit derivatives are used to manage the counterparty credit risk associated with loans and lending-related commitments. Credit derivatives compensate the purchaser when the entity referenced in the contract experiences a credit event, such as bankruptcy or a failure to pay an obligation when due. Credit derivatives primarily consist of CDS. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see the discussion in the Credit derivatives section on&#32;pages 184&#8211;186&#32;of this Note.&#32;For more information about risk management derivatives, see the risk management derivatives gains and losses table on&#32;page 184&#32;of this Note, and the hedge accounting gains and losses tables on&#32;pages 182&#8211;184&#32;of this Note.&#32;Derivative counterparties and settlement types&#32;The Firm enters into OTC derivatives, which are negotiated and settled bilaterally with the derivative counterparty.&#32;The Firm also enters into, as principal, certain&#32;ETD such as futures and options, and&#32;OTC-cleared derivative contracts with&#32;CCPs. ETD contracts are generally standardized contracts traded on an exchange and cleared by the CCP, which is&#32;the Firm's counterparty from the inception of the transactions. OTC-cleared derivatives are traded on a bilateral basis and then novated to the CCP for clearing.&#32;Derivative clearing services&#32;The Firm provides clearing services for clients where&#32;the Firm acts as a clearing member with respect to certain derivative exchanges and clearing houses.&#32;The Firm does not reflect the clients' derivative contracts in its Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information on&#32;the Firm's clearing services, see Note&#32;29.Accounting for derivatives&#32;All free-standing derivatives that&#32;the Firm executes for its own account are required to be recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.&#32;As permitted under U.S. GAAP, the Firm nets derivative assets and liabilities, and the related cash collateral receivables and payables, when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between&#32;the Firm and the derivative counterparty. For further discussion of the offsetting of assets and liabilities, see Note 1. The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether or not the transaction has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are reported and measured at fair value through earnings. The tabular disclosures on&#32;pages 178&#8211;184&#32;of this Note provide additional information on the amount of, and reporting for, derivative assets, liabilities, gains and losses. For further discussion of derivatives embedded in structured notes, see Notes&#32;3 and 4. Derivatives designated as hedges&#32;The Firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivatives executed for risk management purposes &#8211; generally interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity derivatives. However,&#32;JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of the derivatives involved in&#32;the Firm's risk management activities. For example,&#32;the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to purchased CDS used to manage the credit risk of loans and lending-related commitments, because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges. For the same reason,&#32;the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain interest rate, foreign exchange, and commodity derivatives used for risk management purposes.&#32;To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged. In addition, for a derivative to be designated as a hedge, the risk management objective and strategy must be documented. Hedge documentation must identify the derivative hedging instrument, the asset or liability or forecasted transaction and type of risk to be hedged, and how the effectiveness of the derivative is assessed prospectively and retrospectively. To assess effectiveness,&#32;the Firm uses statistical methods such as regression analysis, as well as nonstatistical methods including dollar-value comparisons of the change in the fair value of the derivative to the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The extent to which a derivative has been, and is expected to continue to be, effective at offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item must be assessed and documented at least quarterly. Any hedge ineffectiveness (i.e., the amount by which the gain or loss on the designated derivative instrument does not exactly offset the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk) must be reported in current-period earnings. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective at hedging the designated exposure, hedge accounting is discontinued.&#32;&#160;There are three types of hedge accounting designations: fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.&#32;JPMorgan Chase uses fair value hedges primarily to hedge fixed-rate long-term debt, AFS securities and certain commodities inventories. For qualifying fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative, and in the value of the hedged item for the risk being hedged, are recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the adjustment to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the hedged item, and for benchmark interest rate hedges, is amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item &#8211; primarily net interest income and principal transactions revenue.&#32;JPMorgan Chase uses cash flow hedges primarily to hedge the exposure to variability in forecasted cash flows from floating-rate assets and liabilities and foreign currency&#8211;denominated revenue and expense. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded in OCI and recognized in the Consolidated statements of income when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. Derivative amounts affecting earnings are recognized consistent with the classification of the hedged item &#8211; primarily interest income, interest expense, noninterest revenue and compensation expense. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated, then the value of the derivative recorded in&#32;AOCI is recognized in earnings when the cash flows that were hedged affect earnings. For hedge relationships that are discontinued because a forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to the original hedge forecast, any related derivative values recorded in AOCI are immediately recognized in earnings.&#32;JPMorgan Chase uses net investment hedges to protect the value of&#32;the Firm's net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries or branches whose functional currencies are not the U.S. dollar. For foreign currency qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are recorded in the translation adjustments account within AOCI.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table outlines&#32;the Firm's primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure category.Notional amount of derivative contracts&#32;The following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of the volume of&#32;the Firm's derivatives activity, the notional amounts significantly exceed, in&#32;the Firm's view, the possible losses that could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional amount is not exchanged; it is used simply as a reference to calculate payments.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsImpact of derivatives on the Consolidated balance sheets&#32;The following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that are reflected on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, by accounting designation (e.g., whether the derivatives were designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type.&#32;Derivatives nettingThe following tables present, as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, gross and net derivative receivables and payables by contract and settlement type. Derivative receivables and payables, as well as the related cash collateral from the same counterparty, have been netted on the Consolidated balance sheets where&#32;the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement. Where such a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, amounts are not eligible for netting on the Consolidated balance sheets, and those derivative receivables and payables are shown separately in the tables below.&#32;In addition to the cash collateral received and transferred that is presented on a net basis with derivative receivables and payables,&#32;the Firm receives and transfers additional collateral (financial instruments and cash). These amounts mitigate counterparty credit risk associated with&#32;the Firm's derivative instruments, but are not eligible for net presentation:&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsLiquidity risk and credit-related contingent features&#32;In addition to the specific market risks introduced by each derivative contract type, derivatives expose&#32;JPMorgan Chase to credit risk &#8212; the risk that derivative counterparties may fail to meet their payment obligations under the derivative contracts and the collateral, if any, held by&#32;the Firm proves to be of insufficient value to cover the payment obligation. It is the policy of&#32;JPMorgan Chase to actively pursue, where possible, the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements and collateral agreements to mitigate derivative counterparty credit risk. The amount of derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance sheets is the fair value of the derivative contracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by&#32;the Firm.While derivative receivables expose&#32;the Firm to credit risk, derivative payables expose&#32;the Firm to liquidity risk, as the derivative contracts typically require&#32;the Firm to post cash or securities collateral with counterparties as the fair value &#160;of the contracts moves in the counterparties' favor or upon specified downgrades in&#32;the Firm's and its subsidiaries' respective credit ratings. Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade of either&#32;the Firm or the counterparty, at the fair value of the derivative contracts. The following table shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative payables related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivatives that contain contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade, and the associated collateral&#32;the Firm has posted in the normal course of business, at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.The following table shows the impact of a single-notch and two-notch downgrade of the long-term issuer ratings of&#32;JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, predominantly JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;), at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, related to OTC and OTC-cleared derivative contracts with contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a ratings downgrade. Derivatives contracts generally require additional collateral to be posted or terminations to be triggered when the predefined threshold rating is breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting corresponding rating provided by another major rating agency will generally not result in additional collateral (except in certain instances in which additional initial margin may be required upon a ratings downgrade), nor in termination payments requirements. The liquidity impact in the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below the lowest current rating of the rating agencies referred to in the derivative contract.&#32;Derivatives executed in contemplation of a sale of the underlying financial assetIn certain instances&#32;the Firm enters into transactions in which it transfers financial assets but maintains the economic exposure to the transferred assets by entering into a derivative with the same counterparty in contemplation of the initial transfer.&#32;The Firm generally accounts for such transfers as collateralized financing transactions as described in&#32;Note 13, but in limited circumstances they may qualify to be accounted for as a sale and a derivative under U.S. GAAP. The amount of such transfers accounted for as a sale where the associated derivative was outstanding at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;was not material.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsImpact of derivatives on the Consolidated statements of incomeThe following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting&#32;designation or purpose.&#32;Fair value hedge gains and losses&#32;The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.&#32;The Firm includes gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in the Consolidated statements of income.&#32;Cash flow hedge gains and losses&#32;The following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.&#32;The Firm includes the gain/(loss) on the hedging derivative and the change in cash flows on the hedged item in the same line item in the Consolidated statements of income.&#32;The Firm did not experience any forecasted transactions that failed to occur for the years ended 2016 and 2014. In 2015,&#32;the Firm reclassified approximately&#32;$150 million&#32;of net losses from AOCI to other income because&#32;the Firm determined that it was probable that the forecasted interest payment cash flows would not occur as a result of the planned reduction in wholesale non-operating deposits.&#32;Over the next 12 months,&#32;the Firm expects that&#32;approximately $151 million&#32;(after-tax) of net losses recorded in AOCI at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. For terminated cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are remaining is approximately&#32;six years. For open cash flow hedges, the maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately one year. The Firm's longer-dated forecasted transactions relate to core lending and borrowing activities.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNet investment hedge gains and losses&#32;The following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk management purposes&#32;The following table presents pre-tax gains/(losses) recorded on a limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge accounting relationships, that are used to manage risks associated with certain specified assets and liabilities, including certain risks arising from the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending exposures, foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, and commodities-related contracts and investments.&#32;&#160;Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivatives&#32;The Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the needs of customers and uses derivatives to manage certain risks associated with net open risk positions from&#32;its market-making activities, including the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables. All derivatives not included in the hedge accounting or specified risk management categories above are included in this category. Gains and losses on these derivatives are primarily recorded in principal transactions revenue. See Note&#32;7 for information on principal transactions revenue.&#32;Credit derivatives&#32;Credit derivatives are financial instruments whose value is derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-party issuer (the reference entity) and which allow one party (the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to another party (the protection seller). Credit derivatives expose the protection purchaser to the creditworthiness of the protection seller, as the protection seller is required to make payments under the contract when the reference entity experiences a credit event, such as a bankruptcy, a failure to pay its obligation or a restructuring. The seller of credit protection receives a premium for providing protection but has the risk that the underlying instrument referenced in the contract will be subject to a credit event.&#32;The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the credit derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker,&#32;the Firm actively manages a portfolio of credit derivatives by purchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of customers. Second, as an end-user,&#32;the Firm uses credit derivatives to manage credit risk associated with lending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposures in&#32;the Firm's wholesale businesses, and to manage the credit risk arising from certain financial instruments in&#32;the Firm's market-making businesses. Following is a summary of various types of credit derivatives.&#32;Credit default swaps&#32;Credit derivatives may reference the credit of either a single reference entity (&#8220;single-name&#8221;) or a broad-based index.&#32;The Firm purchases and sells protection on both single- name and index-reference obligations. Single-name CDS and index CDS contracts are either OTC or OTC-cleared derivative contracts. Single-name CDS are used to manage the default risk of a single reference entity, while index CDS contracts are used to manage the credit risk associated with the broader credit markets or credit market segments. Like the S&P 500 and other market indices, a CDS index consists of a portfolio of CDS across many reference entities. New series of CDS indices are periodically established with a new underlying portfolio of reference entities to reflect changes in the credit markets. If one of the reference entities in the index experiences a credit event, then the reference entity that defaulted is removed from the index. CDS can also be referenced against specific portfolios of reference names or against customized exposure levels based on specific client demands: for example, to provide protection against the first&#32;$1 million&#32;of realized credit losses in a&#32;$10 million&#32;portfolio of exposure. Such structures are commonly known as tranche CDS.&#32;For both single-name CDS contracts and index CDS contracts, upon the occurrence of a credit event, under the terms of a CDS contract neither party to the CDS contract has recourse to the reference entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection seller for the difference between the face value of the CDS contract and the fair value of the reference obligation at settlement of the credit derivative contract, also known as the recovery value. The protection purchaser does not need to hold the debt instrument of the underlying reference entity in order to receive amounts due under the CDS contract when a credit event occurs.&#32;&#160;Credit-related notes&#32;A credit-related note is a funded credit derivative where the issuer of the credit-related note purchases from the note investor credit protection on a reference entity or an index. Under the contract, the investor pays the issuer the par value of the note at the inception of the transaction, and in return, the issuer pays periodic payments to the investor, based on the credit risk of the referenced entity. The issuer also repays the investor the par value of the note at maturity unless the reference entity (or one of the entities that makes up a reference index) experiences a specified credit event. If a credit event occurs, the issuer is not obligated to repay the par value of the note, but rather, the issuer pays the investor the difference between the par value of the note and the fair value of the defaulted reference obligation at the time of settlement. Neither party to the credit-related note has recourse to the defaulting reference entity.The following tables present a summary of the notional amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes&#32;the Firm sold and purchased as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Upon a credit event,&#32;the Firm as a seller of protection would typically pay out only a percentage of the full notional amount of net protection sold, as the amount actually required to be paid on the contracts takes into account the recovery value of the reference obligation at the time of settlement.&#32;The Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasing protection with identical or similar underlying reference entities. Other purchased protection referenced in the following tables includes credit derivatives bought on related, but not identical, reference positions (including indices, portfolio coverage and other reference points) as well as protection purchased through credit-related notes.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives, because the notional amount does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value of the reference obligation, or related cash instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in&#32;the Firm's view, the risks associated with such derivatives.&#32;Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes&#32;The following tables summarize the notional amounts by the ratings, maturity profile, and total fair value, of credit derivatives and credit-related notes as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, where&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of credit derivatives and credit-related notes where&#32;JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection are comparable to the profile reflected below.&#32;Note 7 &#8211; Noninterest revenueInvestment banking fees&#32;The following table presents the components of investment banking fees.&#32;Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when&#32;the Firm has rendered all services to, and is entitled to collect the fee from, the issuer, and there are no other contingencies associated with the fee. Underwriting fees are net of syndicate expense;&#32;the Firm recognizes credit arrangement and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention, timing and yield criteria. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when the related services have been performed and the fee has been earned.&#32;Principal transactions&#32;Principal transactions revenue is driven by many factors, including the bid-offer spread, which is the difference between the price at which&#32;the Firm is willing to buy a financial or other instrument and the price at which&#32;the Firm is willing to sell that instrument. It also consists of the realized (as a result of closing out or termination of transactions, or interim cash payments) and unrealized (as a result of changes in valuation) gains and losses on financial and other instruments (including those accounted for under the fair value option) primarily used in client-driven market-making activities and on private equity investments. In connection with its client-driven market-making activities,&#32;the Firm transacts in debt and equity instruments, derivatives and commodities (including physical commodities inventories and financial instruments that reference commodities).&#32;Principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized and unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and specified risk-management activities, including: (a) certain derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships (primarily fair value hedges of commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain derivatives used for specific risk management purposes, primarily to mitigate credit risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and (c) other derivatives. For further information on the income statement classification of gains and losses from derivatives activities, see Note&#32;6.In the financial commodity markets,&#32;the Firm transacts in OTC derivatives (e.g., swaps, forwards, options) and ETD that reference a wide range of underlying commodities.&#32;In the physical commodity markets, the Firm primarily purchases and sells precious and base metals and may hold other commodities inventories under financing and other arrangements with clients. &#160;The following table presents all realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in principal transactions revenue. This table excludes interest income and interest expense on trading assets and liabilities, which are an integral part of the overall performance of&#32;the Firm's client-driven market-making activities.&#160;See Note&#32;8 for further information on interest income and interest expense. Trading revenue is presented primarily by instrument type.&#32;The Firm's client-driven market-making businesses generally utilize a variety of instrument types in connection with their market-making and related risk-management activities; accordingly, the trading revenue presented in the table below is not representative of the total revenue of any individual line of business.&#32;Lending- and deposit-related fees&#32;The following table presents the components of lending- and deposit-related fees.&#32;Lending-related fees include fees earned from loan commitments, standby letters of credit, financial guarantees, and other loan-servicing activities. Deposit-related fees include fees earned in lieu of compensating balances, and fees earned from performing cash management activities and other deposit account services. Lending- and deposit-related fees in this revenue category are recognized over the period in which the related service is provided.Notes to consolidated financial statementsAsset management, administration and commissions The following table presents Firmwide asset management, administration and commissions income: This revenue category includes fees from investment management and related services, custody and brokerage services,&#32;insurance premiums and commissions, and fees from other products and services. These fees are recognized over the period in which the related product or service is provided.&#32;Performance-based fees, which are earned based on exceeding certain benchmarks or other performance targets, are accrued and recognized at the end of the performance period in which the target is met. The Firm has contractual arrangements with third parties to provide certain services in connection with its asset management activities. Amounts paid to third-party service providers are predominantly expensed, such that asset management fees are recorded gross of payments made to third parties.&#32;Mortgage fees and related incomeThis revenue category primarily reflects&#32;CCB's Mortgage Banking production and servicing revenue, including fees and income derived from mortgages originated with the intent to sell; mortgage sales and servicing including losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans; the impact of risk-management activities associated with the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans and MSRs; and revenue related to any residual interests held from mortgage securitizations. This revenue category also includes gains and losses on sales and lower of cost or fair value adjustments for mortgage loans held-for-sale, as well as changes in fair value for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell and measured at fair value under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of&#32;MSRs are reported in mortgage fees and related income. For a further discussion of MSRs, see Note&#32;17. Net interest income from mortgage loans is recorded in interest income.&#32;&#160;Card incomeThis revenue category includes interchange income from credit and debit cards and net fees earned from processing card transactions for merchants. Card income is recognized as earned. Costs related to rewards programs are recorded when the rewards are earned by the customer and presented as a reduction to interchange income. Annual fees and direct loan origination costs are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over a&#32;12-month period.&#32;Credit card revenue sharing agreementsThe Firm has contractual agreements with numerous co-brand partners which grant the Firm exclusive rights to market to the customers or members of such partners. These partners endorse the credit card programs and provide their customer or member lists to the Firm, and they may also conduct marketing activities and provide awards under the various credit card programs. The terms of these agreements generally range from five&#32;to ten&#32;years.The Firm typically makes incentive payments to the partners based on new account originations, sales volumes and the cost of the partners' marketing activities and awards. Payments based on new account originations are accounted for as direct loan origination costs. Payments to partners based on sales volumes are deducted from interchange income as the related revenue is earned. Payments based on marketing efforts undertaken by the partners are expensed by the Firm as incurred and reported as noninterest expense.Other incomeOther income on the Firm's Consolidated statements of income included the following: Operating lease income is recognized on a straight&#8211;line basis over the lease term.&#32;Note 8 &#8211; Interest income and Interest expenseInterest income and interest expense are recorded in the Consolidated statements of income and classified based on the nature of the underlying asset or liability.&#32;The following table presents the components of interest income and interest expense:&#32;Interest income and interest expense includes the current-period interest accruals for financial instruments measured at fair value, except for derivatives and financial instruments containing embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with U.S. GAAP, absent the fair value option election; for those instruments, all changes in fair value including any interest elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue. For financial instruments that are not measured at fair value, the related interest is included within interest income or interest expense, as applicable.&#32;&#160;Note 9 &#8211; Pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans The Firm has various defined benefit pension plans and OPEB plans that provide benefits to its employees. These plans are discussed below.Defined benefit pension plansThe Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S. defined benefit pension plan that provides benefits to substantially all U.S. employees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance formula in the form of pay and interest credits to determine the benefits to be provided at retirement, based on years of service and eligible compensation (generally base salary/regular pay and variable cash incentive compensation capped at $100,000 annually). Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after completing one year&#32;of service, and benefits generally vest after three years&#32;of service. The Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualifying employees in certain non-U.S. locations based on factors such as eligible compensation, age and/or years of service.It is the Firm's policy to fund the pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet the requirements under applicable laws. The Firm does not anticipate at this time any contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2017. The 2017&#32;contributions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be $44 million&#32;of which $28 million&#32;are contractually required.JPMorgan Chase also has a number of defined benefit pension plans that are not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan, pursuant to which certain employees previously earned pay credits on compensation amounts above the maximum stipulated by law under a qualified plan; no further pay credits are allocated under this plan. The Excess Retirement Plan had an unfunded projected benefit obligation (&#8220;PBO&#8221;) in the amount of $215 million&#32;and $237 million, at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.Defined contribution plansJPMorgan Chase currently provides two qualified defined contribution plans in the U.S. and other similar arrangements in certain non-U.S. locations, all of which are administered in accordance with applicable local laws and regulations. The most significant of these plans is the JPMorgan Chase 401(k) Savings Plan (the &#8220;401(k) Savings Plan&#8221;), which covers substantially all U.S. employees. Employees can contribute to the 401(k) Savings Plan on a pretax and/or Roth 401(k) after-tax basis. The JPMorgan Chase Common Stock Fund, which is an investment option under the 401(k) Savings Plan, is a nonleveraged employee stock ownership plan.The Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to 5%&#32;of eligible compensation (generally base salary/regular pay and variable cash incentive compensation) on an annual basis. Employees begin to receive matching contributions Notes to consolidated financial statementsafter completing a one-year-of-service requirement. Employees with total annual cash compensation of $250,000&#32;or more are not eligible for matching contributions. Matching contributions vest after three years&#32;of service. The 401(k) Savings Plan also permits discretionary profit-sharing contributions by participating companies for certain employees, subject to a specified vesting schedule.OPEB plansJPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits to certain retirees and postretirement medical benefits to qualifying U.S. employees. These benefits vary with the length of service and the date of hire and provide for limits on the Firm's share of covered medical benefits. The medical and life insurance benefits are both contributory. Effective January 1, 2015, there was &#160;a transition of certain Medicare eligible retirees from JPMorgan Chase group sponsored coverage to Medicare exchanges. As a result of this change, eligible retirees will receive a Healthcare Reimbursement Account amount each year if they enroll through the Medicare exchange. The impact of this change was not material. Postretirement medical benefits also are offered to qualifying U.K. employees.JPMorgan Chase's U.S. OPEB obligation is funded with corporate-owned life insurance (&#8220;COLI&#8221;) purchased on the lives of eligible employees and retirees. While the Firm owns the COLI policies, COLI proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other distributions) may be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement benefit claim payments and related administrative expense. The U.K. OPEB plan is unfunded.The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status amounts reported on the Consolidated balance sheets for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.Gains and lossesFor the Firm's defined benefit pension plans, fair value is used to determine the expected return on plan assets. Amortization of net gains and losses is included in annual net periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10%&#32;of the greater of the PBO or the fair value of the plan assets. Any excess is amortized over the average future service period of defined benefit pension plan participants, which for the U.S. defined benefit pension plan is currently seven years&#32;and for the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans is the period appropriate for the affected plan. In addition, prior service costs are amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits under the plan when the prior service cost is first recognized. The average remaining amortization period for the U.S. defined benefit pension plan for current prior service costs is three years.&#160;For the Firm's OPEB plans, a calculated value that recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period is used to determine the expected return on plan assets. This value is referred to as the market related value of assets. Amortization of net gains and losses, adjusted for gains and losses not yet recognized, is included in annual net periodic benefit cost if, as of the beginning of the year, the net gain or loss exceeds 10%&#32;of the greater of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation or the market related value of assets. Any excess net gain or loss is amortized over the average expected lifetime of retired participants, which is currently twelve years; however, prior service costs resulting from plan changes are amortized over the average years of service remaining to full eligibility age, which is currently two years.The following table presents pretax pension and OPEB amounts recorded in AOCI.The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statements of income and other comprehensive income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2017&#32;are as follows.The following table presents the actual rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.Plan assumptionsJPMorgan Chase's expected long-term rate of return for U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan assets is a blended average of the investment advisor's projected long-term (10&#32;or more years) returns for the various asset classes, weighted by the asset allocation. Returns on asset classes are developed using a forward-looking approach and are not strictly based on historical returns. Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation, expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield. Bond returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation, real bond yield and risk spread (as appropriate), adjusted for the expected effect on returns from changing yields. Other asset-class returns are derived from their relationship to the equity and bond markets. Consideration is also given to current market conditions and the short-term portfolio mix of each plan.For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, procedures similar to those in the U.S. are used to develop the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, taking into consideration local market conditions and the specific allocation of plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return on U.K. plan assets is an average of projected long-term returns for each asset class. The return on equities has been selected by reference to the yield on long-term U.K. government bonds plus an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate. The expected return on &#8220;AA&#8221; rated long-term corporate bonds is based on an implied yield for similar bonds.The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans was provided by the Firm's actuaries. This rate was selected by reference to the yields on portfolios of bonds with maturity dates and coupons that closely match each of the plan's projected cash flows; such portfolios are derived from a broad-based universe of high-quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. In years in which these hypothetical bond portfolios generate excess cash, such excess is assumed to be reinvested at the one-year forward rates &#160;implied by the Mercer Yield Curve published as of the measurement date. The discount rate for the U.K. defined benefit pension plan represents a rate of appropriate duration from the analysis of yield curves provided by the Firm's actuaries.At December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm decreased the discount rates used to determine its benefit obligations for the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans in light of current market interest rates, which will increase expense by approximately $45 million&#32;in 2017. The 2017&#32;expected long-term rate of return on U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets and U.S. OPEB plan assets are 6.00%&#32;and 5.00%, respectively. For 2017, the initial health care benefit obligation trend assumption has been set at 5.00%, while the ultimate health care trend assumption and the year to reach the ultimate rate remain at 5.00%&#32;and 2017, respectively, unchanged from 2016. As of December&#160;31, 2016, the interest crediting rate assumption remained at 5.00% and the assumed rate of compensation increase was reduced to 2.30%.The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial assumptions for the projected and accumulated postretirement benefit obligations, and the components of net periodic benefit costs, for the Firm's significant U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans, as of and for the periods indicated. The following table presents the effect of a one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate on JPMorgan Chase's accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. As of December&#160;31, 2016, there was no material effect on total service and interest cost.&#160;JPMorgan Chase's U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense is sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate. With all other assumptions held constant, a 25-basis point decline in the expected long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets would result in an aggregate increase of approximately $40 million&#32;in 2017&#32;U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rate for the U.S. plans would result in an increase in 2017&#32;U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plan expense of approximately an aggregate $31 million&#32;and an increase in the related benefit obligations of approximately an aggregate $316 million. A 25-basis point decrease in the interest crediting rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension plan would result in a decrease in 2017&#32;U.S. defined benefit pension expense of approximately $36 million&#32;and a decrease in the related PBO of approximately $160 million. A 25-basis point decline in the discount rates for the non-U.S. plans would result in an increase in the 2017&#32;non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan expense of approximately $12 million.Notes to consolidated financial statementsInvestment strategy and asset allocationThe Firm's U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held in trust and are invested in a well-diversified portfolio of equity and fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and alternative investments (e.g., hedge funds, private equity, real estate and real assets). Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are also invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity, fixed income and other securities. Assets of the Firm's COLI policies, which are used to partially fund the U.S. OPEB plan, are held in separate accounts of an insurance company and are allocated to investments intended to replicate equity and fixed income indices.The investment policy for the Firm's U.S. defined benefit pension plan assets is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the needs and goals of the plan using a global portfolio of various asset classes diversified by market segment, economic sector, and issuer. Assets are managed by a combination of internal and external investment managers. Periodically the Firm performs a comprehensive analysis on the U.S. defined benefit pension plan asset allocations, incorporating projected asset and liability data, which focuses on the short- and long-term impact of the asset allocation on cumulative pension expense, economic cost, present value of contributions and funded status.&#32;Currently, approved asset allocation ranges are: U.S. equity 0%&#32;to 45%, international equity 0%&#32;to 40%, debt securities 0%&#32;to 80%, hedge funds 0%&#32;to 5%, real estate 0%&#32;to 10%, real assets 0%&#32;to 10%&#32;and private equity 0%&#32;to 20%. Asset allocations are not managed to a specific target but seek to shift asset class allocations within these stated ranges. Investment strategies incorporate the economic outlook and the anticipated implications of the macroeconomic environment on the various asset classes while maintaining an appropriate level of liquidity for the plan. The Firm &#160;regularly reviews the asset allocations and asset managers, as well as other factors that impact the portfolio, which is rebalanced when deemed necessary.For the U.K. defined benefit pension plans, which represent the most significant of the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the assets are invested to maximize returns subject to an appropriate level of risk relative to the plans' liabilities. To reduce the volatility in returns relative to the plans' liability profiles, the U.K. defined benefit pension plans' largest asset allocations are to debt securities of appropriate durations. Other assets, mainly equity securities, are then invested for capital appreciation, to provide long-term investment growth. Similar to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, asset allocations and asset managers for the U.K. plans are reviewed regularly and the portfolios are rebalanced when deemed necessary.Investments held by the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans include financial instruments that are exposed to various risks such as market, credit, liquidity and country risks. Exposure to a concentration of credit risk is mitigated by the broad diversification of both U.S. and non-U.S. investment instruments. Additionally, the investments in each of the common/collective trust funds and registered investment companies are further diversified into various financial instruments. As of December&#160;31, 2016, assets held by the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans do not include JPMorgan Chase common stock, except through indirect exposures through investments in third-party stock-index funds. The plans hold investments in funds that are sponsored or managed by affiliates of JPMorgan Chase in the amount of $3.4 billion&#32;and&#32;$3.2 billion&#32;for U.S. plans and $1.2 billion&#32;and $1.2 billion&#32;for non-U.S. plans, as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation of the fair values of total plan assets at December&#160;31 for the years indicated, as well as the respective approved range/target allocation by asset category, for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.Fair value measurement of the plans' assets and liabilitiesFor information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of level 1, 2, and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methods employed by the Firm, see Note 3.The Firm's U.S. OPEB plan was partially funded with COLI policies of $2.0 billion&#32;and $1.9 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, which were classified in level 3 of the valuation hierarchy.Notes to consolidated financial statementsEstimated future benefit payments The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid, which include the effect of expected future service, for the years indicated. The OPEB medical and life insurance payments are net of expected retiree contributions.Note 10 &#8211; Employee stock-based incentivesEmployee stock-based awardsIn 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, JPMorgan Chase&#32;granted long-term stock-based awards to certain employees under its LTIP, as amended and restated effective May&#160;19, 2015. Under the terms of the LTIP, as of December&#160;31, 2016, 78 million&#32;shares of common stock were available for issuance through May&#160;2019. The LTIP is the only active plan under which the Firm is currently granting stock-based incentive awards. In the following discussion, the LTIP, plus prior Firm plans and plans assumed as the result of acquisitions, are referred to collectively as the &#8220;LTI Plans,&#8221; and such plans constitute the Firm's stock-based incentive plans.RSUs are awarded at no cost to the recipient upon their grant. Generally, RSUs are granted annually and vest at a rate of 50% after&#32;two years&#32;and 50% after&#32;three years&#32;and are converted into shares of common stock as of the vesting date. In addition, RSUs typically include full-career eligibility provisions, which allow employees to continue to vest upon voluntary termination, subject to post-employment and other restrictions based on age or service-related requirements. All RSU awards are subject to forfeiture until vested and contain clawback provisions that may result in cancellation under certain specified circumstances. RSUs entitle the recipient to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid on the underlying common stock during the period the RSUs are outstanding and, as such, are considered participating securities as discussed in Note 24. In January 2016,&#32;the Firm's Board of Directors approved the grant of performance share units (&#8220;PSUs&#8221;) to members of&#32;the Firm's Operating Committee under the variable compensation program for performance year 2015. PSUs are subject to&#32;the Firm's achievement of specified performance criteria over a three-year period. The number of awards that vest can range from zero to 150% of the grant amount. The awards vest and are converted into shares of common stock in the quarter after the end of the three-year performance period. In addition, dividends are notionally reinvested in&#32;the Firm's common stock and will be delivered only in respect of any earned shares.&#32;Once the PSUs have vested, the shares of common stock that are delivered, after applicable tax withholding, must be held for an additional two-year period, for a total combined vesting and holding period of five years from the grant date.&#32;Under the LTI Plans, stock options and stock appreciation rights (&#8220;SARs&#8221;) have generally been granted with an exercise price equal to the fair value of JPMorgan Chase's common stock on the grant date.&#32;The Firm periodically grants employee stock options to individual employees.&#32;There were no material grants of stock options or SARs&#32;in 2016, 2015 and 2014. SARs generally expire ten years after the grant date.&#32;&#160;The Firm separately recognizes compensation expense for each tranche of each award, net of estimated forfeitures, as if it were a separate award with its own vesting date. Generally, for each tranche granted, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date until the vesting date of the respective tranche, provided that the employees will not become full-career eligible during the vesting period. For awards with full-career eligibility provisions and awards granted with no future substantive service requirement,&#32;the Firm accrues the estimated value of awards expected to be awarded to employees as of the grant date without giving consideration to the impact of post-employment restrictions. For each tranche granted to employees who will become full-career eligible during the vesting period, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis from the grant date until the earlier of the employee's full-career eligibility date or the vesting date of the respective tranche.&#32;The Firm's policy for issuing shares upon settlement of employee stock-based incentive awards is to issue either new shares of common stock or treasury shares. During 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm settled all of its employee stock-based awards by issuing treasury shares.In January&#160;2008,&#32;the Firm&#32;awarded to its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer up to&#32;2 million&#32;SARs. The terms of this award are distinct from, and more restrictive than, other equity grants regularly awarded by&#32;the Firm. On July 15, 2014, the Compensation & Management Development Committee and Board of Directors&#32;determined that all requirements for the vesting of the&#32;2 million&#32;SAR awards had been met and thus, the awards became exercisable.&#32;The SARs, which will expire in January 2018, have an exercise price of&#32;$39.83&#32;(the price of JPMorgan Chase common stock on the date of grant). The expense related to this award was dependent on changes in fair value of the SARs through July 15, 2014 (the date when the vested number of SARs were determined), and the cumulative expense was recognized ratably over the service period, which was initially assumed to be&#32;five years&#32;but, effective in the first quarter of 2013, was extended to&#32;six and one-half years. The Firm recognized&#32;$3&#160;million&#32;in compensation expense in 2014 for this award.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsRSUs, PSUs, employee stock options and SARs activityCompensation expense for RSUs and PSUs is measured based on the number of units granted multiplied by the stock price at the grant date, and for employee stock options and SARs, is measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Compensation expense for these awards is recognized in net income as described previously. The following table summarizes JPMorgan Chase's RSUs, PSUs, employee stock options and SARs activity for 2016.The total fair value of RSUs that vested during the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, was $2.2 billion, $2.8 billion&#32;and $3.2 billion, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, was $338&#160;million, $335 million&#32;and $539 million, respectively.Compensation expenseThe Firm recognized the following noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-based incentive plans in its Consolidated statements of income.At December&#160;31, 2016, approximately $700 million&#32;(pretax)&#160;of compensation expense related to unvested awards had not yet been charged to net income. That cost is expected to be amortized into compensation expense over a weighted-average period of 1.0 year. The Firm does not capitalize any compensation expense related to share-based compensation awards to employees.&#160;Cash flows and tax benefitsEffective January 1, 2016, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to employee share-based payments. As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, all excess tax benefits (including tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents) on share-based payment awards are recognized within income tax expense in the Consolidated statements of income. In prior years these tax benefits were recorded as increases to additional paid-in capital. Income tax benefits related to stock-based incentive arrangements recognized in the Firm's Consolidated statements of income for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, were $916&#160;million, $746&#160;million&#32;and $854&#160;million, respectively.The following table sets forth the cash received from the exercise of stock options under all stock-based incentive arrangements, and the actual income tax benefit related to tax deductions from the exercise of the stock options.Note 11 &#8211; Noninterest expenseFor details on noninterest expense, see Consolidated statements of income on&#32;page 141. Included within&#32;other expense are the following:&#32;&#160;Note 12 &#8211; Securities Securities are classified as trading, AFS or HTM. Securities classified as trading assets are discussed in Note&#32;3. Predominantly all of&#32;the Firm's AFS and HTM investment securities (the &#8220;investment securities portfolio&#8221;) are held by Treasury and CIO in connection with its asset-liability management objectives. At&#32;December 31, 2016, the investment securities portfolio consisted of debt securities with an average credit rating of&#32;AA+&#32;(based upon external ratings where available, and where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings which correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's). AFS securities are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains and losses, after any applicable hedge accounting adjustments, are reported as net increases or decreases to AOCI. The specific identification method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities, which are included in securities gains/(losses) on the Consolidated statements of income. HTM debt securities, which management has the intent and ability to hold until maturity, are carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated balance sheets. For both AFS and HTM debt securities, purchase discounts or premiums are generally amortized into interest income over the contractual life of the security.&#32;During 2016, the Firm transferred commercial MBS and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities with a fair value of $7.5 billion&#32;from AFS to HTM. These securities were transferred at fair value. AOCI included net pretax unrealized gains of $78 million&#32;on the securities at the date of transfer. The transfers reflect the Firm's intent to hold the securities to maturity in order to reduce the impact of price volatility on AOCI. This transfer was a non-cash transaction.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe amortized costs and estimated fair values of the investment securities portfolio were as follows for the dates indicated.&#32;Securities impairment&#32;The following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for the investment securities portfolio by aging category at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Notes to consolidated financial statementsGross unrealized lossesThe Firm has recognized unrealized losses on securities it intends to sell as OTTI.&#32;The Firm does not intend to sell any of the remaining securities with an unrealized loss in AOCI as of December 31, 2016, and it is not likely that&#32;the Firm will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Except for the securities for which credit losses have been recognized in income,&#32;the Firm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2016.&#32;Other-than-temporary impairment&#32;AFS debt and equity securities and HTM debt securities in unrealized loss positions are analyzed as part of&#32;the Firm's ongoing assessment of OTTI.&#32;For most types of debt securities,&#32;the Firm considers a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary when&#32;the Firm does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. For beneficial interests in securitizations that are rated below &#8220;AA&#8221; at their acquisition, or that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in such a way that&#32;the Firm would not recover substantially all of its recorded investment,&#32;the Firm considers an impairment to be other-than-temporary when there is an adverse change in expected cash flows. For AFS equity securities,&#32;the Firm considers a decline in fair value to be other-than-temporary if it is probable that&#32;the Firm will not recover its cost basis.&#32;Potential OTTI is considered using a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than cost; adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; payment structure of the security; changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency; the volatility of the fair value changes; and&#32;the Firm's intent and ability to hold the security until recovery.&#32;For AFS debt securities,&#32;the Firm recognizes OTTI losses in earnings if&#32;the Firm has the intent to sell the debt security, or if it is more likely than not that&#32;the Firm will be required to sell the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. In these circumstances the impairment loss is equal to the full difference between the amortized cost basis and the fair value of the securities. For debt securities in an unrealized loss position that&#32;the Firm has the intent and ability to hold, the expected cash flows to be received from the securities are evaluated to determine if a credit loss exists. In the event of a credit loss, only the amount of impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in income. Amounts relating to factors other than credit losses are recorded in OCI.&#32;&#160;The Firm's cash flow evaluations take into account the factors noted above and expectations of relevant market and economic data as of the end of the reporting period. For securities issued in a securitization,&#32;the Firm estimates cash flows considering underlying loan-level data and structural features of the securitization, such as subordination, excess spread, overcollateralization or other forms of credit enhancement, and compares the losses projected for the underlying collateral (&#8220;pool losses&#8221;) against the level of credit enhancement in the securitization structure to determine whether these features are sufficient to absorb the pool losses, or whether a credit loss exists.&#32;The Firm also performs other analyses to support its cash flow projections, such as first-loss analyses or stress scenarios.&#32;For equity securities, OTTI losses are recognized in earnings if&#32;the Firm intends to sell the security. In other cases&#32;the Firm considers the relevant factors noted above, as well as&#32;the Firm's intent and ability to retain its investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, and whether evidence exists to support a realizable value equal to or greater than the cost basis. Any impairment loss on an equity security is equal to the full difference between the cost basis and the fair value of the security.&#32;Securities gains and losses The following table presents realized gains and losses and OTTI from AFS securities that were recognized in income. Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt securities&#32;The cumulative credit loss component, including any changes therein, of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income related to AFS debt securities was not material as of and during the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.Notes to consolidated financial statementsContractual maturities and yields&#32;The following table presents the amortized cost and estimated fair value at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, of&#32;JPMorgan Chase's investment securities portfolio by contractual maturity.&#32;where applicable. The effective yield excludes unscheduled principal prepayments; and accordingly, actual maturities of securities may differ from their contractual or expected maturities as certain securities may be prepaid.Note 13 &#8211; Securities financing activitiesJPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions (collectively, &#8220;securities financing agreements&#8221;) primarily to finance&#32;the Firm's inventory positions, acquire securities to cover short positions, accommodate customers' financing needs,&#32;and settle other securities obligations. Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized financings on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets. Resale and repurchase agreements are generally carried at the amounts at which the securities will be subsequently sold or repurchased. Securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions are generally carried at the amount of cash collateral advanced or received. Where appropriate under applicable accounting guidance, resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis. For further discussion of the offsetting of assets and liabilities, see&#32;Note 1. Fees received and paid in connection with securities financing agreements are recorded in interest income and interest expense on the Consolidated statements of income.&#32;The Firm has elected the fair value option for certain securities financing agreements. For further information regarding the fair value option, see Note&#32;4. The securities financing agreements for which the fair value option has been elected are reported within securities purchased under resale agreements, securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, and securities borrowed on the Consolidated balance sheets. Generally, for agreements carried at fair value, current-period interest accruals are recorded within interest income and interest expense, with changes in fair value reported in principal transactions revenue. However, for financial instruments containing embedded derivatives that would be separately accounted for in accordance with accounting guidance for hybrid instruments, all changes in fair value, including any interest elements, are reported in principal transactions revenue.&#32;&#160;Securities financing transactions expose&#32;the Firm to credit and liquidity risk. To manage these risks,&#32;the Firm monitors the value of the underlying securities (predominantly high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt and agency MBS) that it has received from or provided to its counterparties compared to the value of cash proceeds and exchanged collateral, and either requests additional collateral or returns securities or collateral when appropriate. Margin levels are initially established based upon the counterparty, the type of underlying securities, and the permissible collateral, and are monitored on an ongoing basis.&#32;In resale agreements and securities borrowed transactions,&#32;the Firm is exposed to credit risk to the extent that the value of the securities received is less than initial cash principal advanced and any collateral amounts exchanged. In repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions, credit risk exposure arises to the extent that the value of underlying securities exceeds the value of the initial cash principal advanced, and any collateral amounts exchanged. Additionally,&#32;the Firm typically enters into master netting agreements and other similar arrangements with its counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate the underlying securities and any collateral amounts exchanged in the event of a counterparty default.&#32;It is also&#32;the Firm's policy to take possession, where possible, of the securities underlying resale agreements and securities borrowed transactions.&#32;For further information regarding assets pledged and collateral received in securities financing agreements, see Note 30. As a result of&#32;the Firm's credit risk mitigation practices with respect to resale and securities borrowed agreements as described above,&#32;the Firm did not hold any reserves for credit impairment with respect to these agreements as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe table below summarizes the gross and net amounts of&#32;the Firm's securities financing agreements, as of December 31, 2016, and 2015. When&#32;the Firm has obtained an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement with a counterparty and where other relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP are met,&#32;the Firm nets, on the Consolidated balance sheets, the balances outstanding under its securities financing agreements with the same counterparty. In addition,&#32;the Firm exchanges securities and/or cash collateral with its counterparties; this collateral also reduces, in&#32;the Firm's view, the economic exposure with&#32;the counterparty. Such collateral, along with securities financing balances that do not meet all these relevant netting criteria under U.S. GAAP, is presented as &#8220;Amounts not nettable on the Consolidated balance sheets,&#8221; and reduces the &#8220;Net amounts&#8221; presented below, if&#32;the Firm has an appropriate legal opinion with respect to the master netting agreement with the counterparty. Where a legal opinion has not been either sought or obtained, the securities financing balances are presented gross in the &#8220;Net amounts&#8221; below, and related collateral does not reduce the amounts presented.&#32;The tables below present as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 the types of financial assets pledged in securities financing agreements and the remaining contractual maturity of the securities financing agreements.Transfers not qualifying for sale accountingAt December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Firm held $5.9 billion&#32;and $7.5 billion, respectively, of financial assets for which the rights have been transferred to third parties; however, the transfers did not qualify as a sale in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These transfers have been recognized as collateralized financing transactions. The transferred assets are recorded in trading assets and loans, and the corresponding liabilities are recorded predominantly in other borrowed funds on the Consolidated balance sheets. Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 14 &#8211; LoansLoan accounting frameworkThe accounting for a loan depends on management's strategy for the loan, and on whether the loan was credit-impaired at the date of acquisition.&#32;The Firm accounts for loans based on the following categories:The following provides a detailed accounting discussion of these loan categories:Loans held-for-investment (other than PCI loans)Originated or purchased loans held-for-investment, other than PCI loans, are recorded at the principal amount outstanding, net of the following: charge-offs; interest applied to principal (for loans accounted for on the cost recovery method); unamortized discounts and premiums; and net deferred loan fees or costs. Credit card loans also include billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.Interest incomeInterest income on performing loans held-for-investment, other than PCI loans, is accrued and recognized as interest income at the contractual rate of interest. Purchase price discounts or premiums, as well as net deferred loan fees or costs, are amortized into interest income over the contractual life of the loan to produce a level rate of return.&#32;Nonaccrual loans&#32;Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest has been suspended. Loans (other than credit card loans and certain consumer loans insured by U.S. government agencies) are placed on nonaccrual status and considered nonperforming when full payment of principal and interest is not expected, regardless of delinquency status, or when principal and interest has been in default for a period of&#32;90 days&#32;or more, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. A loan is determined to be past due when the minimum payment is not received from the borrower by the contractually specified due date or for certain loans (e.g., residential real estate loans), when a monthly payment is due and unpaid for&#32;30 days&#32;or more. Finally, collateral-dependent loans are typically maintained on nonaccrual status.&#32;On the date a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, all interest accrued but not collected is reversed against interest income. In addition, the amortization of deferred amounts is suspended. Interest income on nonaccrual loans may be recognized as cash interest payments are received (i.e., on a cash basis) if the recorded loan balance is deemed fully collectible; however, if there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of the recorded loan balance, all interest cash receipts are applied to reduce the &#160;carrying value of the loan (the cost recovery method). For consumer loans, application of this policy typically results in&#32;the Firm recognizing interest income on nonaccrual consumer loans on a cash basis.&#32;A loan may be returned to accrual status when repayment is reasonably assured and there has been demonstrated performance under the terms of the loan or, if applicable, the terms of the restructured loan.&#32;As permitted by regulatory guidance, credit card loans are generally exempt from being placed on nonaccrual status; accordingly, interest and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loan is charged off or paid in full. However,&#32;the Firm separately establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans and charged to interest income, for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued and billed interest and fee income on credit card loans. The allowance is established with a charge to interest income and is reported as an offset to loans.Allowance for loan losses&#32;The allowance for loan losses represents the estimated probable credit losses inherent in the held-for-investment loan portfolio at the balance sheet date and is recognized on the balance sheet as a contra asset, which brings the recorded investment to the net carrying value. Changes in the allowance for loan losses are recorded in the provision for credit losses on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated statements of income. See Note&#32;15 for further information on&#32;the Firm's accounting policies for the allowance for loan losses.&#32;Charge-offs&#32;Consumer loans, other than risk-rated business banking, risk-rated auto and PCI loans, are generally charged off or charged down to the net realizable value of the underlying collateral (i.e., fair value less costs to sell), with an offset to the allowance for loan losses, upon reaching specified stages of delinquency in accordance with standards established by the&#32;FFIEC. Residential real estate loans, non-modified credit card loans and scored business banking loans are generally charged off no later than&#32;180 days&#32;past due.&#32;Auto, student and modified credit card loans are charged off no later than&#32;120 days&#32;past due.&#32;Certain consumer loans will be charged off earlier than the FFIEC charge-off standards in certain circumstances as follows:&#32;receiving notification of the bankruptcy filing or other event.&#32;Other than in certain limited circumstances,&#32;the Firm typically does not recognize charge-offs on government-guaranteed loans.&#32;Wholesale loans, risk-rated business banking loans and risk-rated auto loans are charged off when it is highly certain that a loss has been realized, including situations where a loan is determined to be both impaired and collateral-dependent. The determination of whether to recognize a charge-off includes many factors, including the prioritization of&#32;the Firm's claim in bankruptcy, expectations of the workout/restructuring of the loan and valuation of the borrower's equity or the loan collateral.&#32;When a loan is charged down to the estimated net realizable value, the determination of the fair value of the collateral depends on the type of collateral (e.g., securities, real estate). In cases where the collateral is in the form of liquid securities, the fair value is based on quoted market prices or broker quotes. For illiquid securities or other financial assets, the fair value of the collateral is estimated using a discounted cash flow model.&#32;For residential real estate loans, collateral values are based upon external valuation sources. When it becomes likely that a borrower is either unable or unwilling to pay,&#32;the Firm obtains a broker's price opinion of the home based on an exterior-only valuation (&#8220;exterior opinions&#8221;), which is then updated at least every&#32;six months&#32;thereafter. As soon as practicable after&#32;the Firm receives the property in satisfaction of a debt (e.g., by taking legal title or physical possession), generally, either through foreclosure or upon the execution of a deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction with the borrower,&#32;the Firm obtains an appraisal based on an inspection that includes the interior of the home (&#8220;interior appraisals&#8221;). Exterior opinions and interior appraisals are discounted based upon&#32;the Firm's experience with actual liquidation values as compared with the estimated values provided by exterior opinions and interior appraisals, considering state- and product-specific factors.&#32;For commercial real estate loans, collateral values are generally based on appraisals from internal and external valuation sources. Collateral values are typically updated every&#32;six&#32;to&#32;twelve months, either by obtaining a new appraisal or by performing an internal analysis, in accordance with&#32;the Firm's policies.&#32;The Firm also considers both borrower- and market-specific factors, which may result in obtaining appraisal updates or broker price opinions at more frequent intervals.&#32;&#160;Loans held-for-sale&#32;Held-for-sale loans are measured at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue. For consumer loans, the valuation is performed on a portfolio basis. For wholesale loans, the valuation is performed on an individual loan basis.&#32;Interest income on loans held-for-sale is accrued and recognized based on the contractual rate of interest.&#32;Loan origination fees or costs and purchase price discounts or premiums are deferred in a contra loan account until the related loan is sold. The deferred fees and discounts or premiums are an adjustment to the basis of the loan and therefore are included in the periodic determination of the lower of cost or fair value adjustments and/or the gain or loss recognized at the time of sale.&#32;Held-for-sale loans are subject to the nonaccrual policies described above.&#32;Because held-for-sale loans are recognized at the lower of cost or fair value,&#32;the Firm's allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies do not apply to these loans.&#32;Loans at fair value&#32;Loans used in a market-making strategy or risk managed on a fair value basis are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in noninterest revenue.&#32;Interest income on loans is accrued and recognized based on the contractual rate of interest. Changes in fair value are recognized in noninterest revenue. Loan origination fees are recognized upfront in noninterest revenue. Loan origination costs are recognized in the associated expense category as incurred.&#32;Because these loans are recognized at fair value,&#32;the Firm's&#32;allowance for loan losses and charge-off policies do not apply to these loans.&#32;See Note&#32;4 for further information on&#32;the Firm's elections of fair value accounting under the fair value option. See Note&#32;3 and Note&#32;4 for further information on loans carried at fair value and classified as trading assets.&#32;PCI loans&#32;PCI loans held-for-investment are initially measured at fair value. PCI loans have evidence of credit deterioration since the loan's origination date and therefore it is probable, at acquisition, that all contractually required payments will not be collected. Because PCI loans are initially measured at fair value, which includes an estimate of future credit losses, no allowance for loan losses related to PCI loans is recorded at the acquisition date. See&#32;page 219&#32;of this Note for information on accounting for PCI loans subsequent to their acquisition.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsLoan classification changes&#32;Loans in the held-for-investment portfolio that management decides to sell are transferred to the held-for-sale portfolio at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. Credit-related losses are charged against the allowance for loan losses; non-credit related losses such as those due to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates are recognized in noninterest revenue.&#32;In the event that management decides to retain a loan in the held-for-sale portfolio, the loan is transferred to the held-for-investment portfolio at the lower of cost or fair value on the date of transfer. These loans are subsequently assessed for impairment based on&#32;the Firm's allowance methodology. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing&#32;the Firm's allowance for loan losses, see Note&#32;15.Loan modifications&#32;The Firm seeks to modify certain loans in conjunction with its loss-mitigation activities. Through the modification,&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;grants one or more concessions to a borrower who is experiencing financial difficulty in order to minimize&#32;the Firm's economic loss, avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral, and to ultimately maximize payments received by&#32;the Firm from the borrower. The concessions granted vary by program and by borrower-specific characteristics, and may include interest rate reductions, term extensions, payment deferrals, principal forgiveness, or the acceptance of equity or other assets in lieu of payments.&#32;Such modifications are accounted for and reported as TDRs. A loan that has been modified in a TDR is generally considered to be impaired until it matures, is repaid, or is otherwise liquidated, regardless of whether the borrower performs under the modified terms. In certain limited cases, the effective interest rate applicable to the modified loan is at or above the current market rate at the time of the restructuring. In such circumstances, and assuming that the loan subsequently performs under its modified terms and&#32;the Firm expects to collect all contractual principal and interest cash flows, the loan is disclosed as impaired and as a TDR only during the year of the modification; in subsequent years, the loan is not disclosed as an impaired loan or as a TDR so long as repayment of the restructured loan under its modified terms is reasonably assured.&#160;Loans, except for credit card loans, modified in a TDR are generally placed on nonaccrual status, although in many cases such loans were already on nonaccrual status prior to modification. These loans may be returned to performing status (the accrual of interest is resumed) if the following criteria are met: (i) the borrower has performed under the modified terms for a minimum of&#32;six months&#32;and/or&#32;six&#32;payments, and (ii)&#32;the Firm has an expectation that repayment of the modified loan is reasonably assured based on, for example, the borrower's debt capacity and level of future earnings, collateral values, LTV ratios, and other current market considerations. In certain limited and well-defined circumstances in which the loan is current at the modification date, such loans are not placed on nonaccrual status at the time of modification.&#32;Because loans modified in TDRs are considered to be impaired, these loans are measured for impairment using&#32;the Firm's established asset-specific allowance methodology, which considers the expected re-default rates for the modified loans. A loan modified in a TDR generally remains subject to the asset-specific allowance methodology throughout its remaining life, regardless of whether the loan is performing and has been returned to accrual status and/or the loan has been removed from the impaired loans disclosures (i.e., loans restructured at market rates). For further discussion of the methodology used to estimate&#32;the Firm's asset-specific allowance, see Note&#32;15.Foreclosed property&#32;The Firm acquires property from borrowers through loan restructurings, workouts, and foreclosures. Property acquired may include real property (e.g., residential real estate, land, and buildings) and commercial and personal property (e.g., automobiles, aircraft, railcars, and ships).&#32;The Firm recognizes foreclosed property upon receiving assets in satisfaction of a loan (e.g., by taking legal title or physical possession). For loans collateralized by real property,&#32;the Firm generally recognizes the asset received at foreclosure sale or upon the execution of a deed in lieu of foreclosure transaction with the borrower. Foreclosed assets are reported in other assets on the Consolidated balance sheets and initially recognized at fair value less costs to sell. Each quarter the fair value of the acquired property is reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, to the lower of cost or fair value. Subsequent adjustments to fair value are charged/credited to noninterest revenue. Operating expense, such as real estate taxes and maintenance, are charged to other expense.Loan portfolio&#32;The Firm's loan portfolio is divided into three portfolio segments, which are the same segments used by&#32;the Firm to determine the allowance for loan losses: Consumer, excluding credit card; Credit card; and Wholesale. Within each portfolio segment&#32;the Firm monitors and assesses the credit risk in the following classes of loans, based on the risk characteristics of each loan class.&#32;The following tables summarize&#32;the Firm's loan balances by portfolio segment.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following tables provide information about the carrying value of retained loans purchased, sold and reclassified to held-for-sale during the periods indicated. These tables exclude loans recorded at fair value.&#32;The Firm manages its exposure to credit risk on an ongoing basis. Selling loans is one way that&#32;the Firm reduces its credit exposures.&#32;The following table provides information about gains and losses, including lower of cost or fair value adjustments, on loan sales by portfolio segment.&#32;Consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolioConsumer loans, excluding credit card loans, consist primarily of residential mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit, auto loans, business banking loans, and student and other loans, with a focus on serving the prime consumer credit market. The portfolio also includes home equity loans secured by junior liens, prime mortgage loans with an interest-only payment period, and certain payment-option loans that may result in negative amortization.&#32;The table below provides information about retained consumer loans, excluding credit card, by class.Delinquency rates are a primary credit quality indicator for consumer loans. Loans that are more than&#32;30 days&#32;past due provide an early warning of borrowers who may be experiencing financial difficulties and/or who may be unable or unwilling to repay the loan. As the loan continues to age, it becomes more clear that the borrower is likely either unable or unwilling to pay. In the case of residential real estate loans, late-stage delinquencies (greater than&#32;150 days&#32;past due) are a strong indicator of loans that will ultimately result in a foreclosure or similar liquidation transaction. In addition to delinquency rates, other credit quality indicators for consumer loans vary based on the class of loan, as follows:&#32;&#160;the loan collateral also provides insight as to the credit quality of the portfolio, as factors such as the regional economy, home price changes and specific events such as natural disasters, will affect credit quality. The borrower's current or &#8220;refreshed&#8221; FICO score is a secondary credit-quality indicator for certain loans, as FICO scores are an indication of the borrower's credit payment history. Thus, a loan to a borrower with a low FICO score&#32;(660&#32;or below) is considered to be of higher risk than a loan to a borrower with a high FICO score. Further, a loan to a borrower with a high LTV ratio and a low FICO score is at greater risk of default than a loan to a borrower that has both a high LTV ratio and a high FICO score.Residential real estate &#8212; excluding PCI loans&#32;The following table provides information by class for residential real estate &#8212; excluding retained PCI loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, portfolio segment.&#32;The following factors should be considered in analyzing certain credit statistics applicable to&#32;the Firm's residential real estate &#8212; excluding PCI loans portfolio: (i) junior lien home equity loans may be fully charged off when the loan becomes&#32;180 days&#32;past due, and the value of the collateral does not support the repayment of the loan, resulting in relatively high charge-off rates for this product class; and (ii) the lengthening of loss-mitigation timelines may result in higher delinquency rates for loans carried at the net realizable value of the collateral that remain on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table represents the Firm's delinquency statistics for junior lien home equity loans and lines as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.(a) These HELOCs are predominantly revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to a loan with a 20-year amortization period, but also include HELOCs that allow interest-only payments beyond the revolving period.(b) The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are experiencing financial difficulty or when the collateral does not support the loan amount.HELOCs beyond the revolving period and&#32;HELOANs have higher delinquency rates than HELOCs within the revolving period. That is primarily because the fully-amortizing payment that is generally required for those products is higher than the minimum payment options&#32;available for HELOCs within the revolving period. The higher delinquency rates associated with amortizing HELOCs and HELOANs are factored into&#32;the Firm's allowance for loan losses.&#32;Impaired loansThe table below sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's residential real estate impaired loans, excluding PCI loans. These loans are considered to be impaired as they have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note&#32;15.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table presents average impaired loans and the related interest income reported by&#32;the Firm.Loan modifications&#32;Modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, are generally accounted for and reported as TDRs. There were no additional commitments to lend to borrowers whose residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, have been modified in TDRs.&#32;The following table presents new TDRs reported by&#32;the Firm.&#160;Nature and extent of modificationsThe U.S. Treasury's Making Home Affordable programs, as well as&#32;the Firm's proprietary modification programs, generally provide various concessions to financially troubled borrowers including, but not limited to, interest rate reductions, term or payment extensions and deferral of principal and/or interest payments that would otherwise have been required under the terms of the original agreement.The following table provides information about how residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, were modified under&#32;the Firm's loss mitigation programs described above during the periods presented. This table excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt.Financial effects of modifications and redefaultsThe following table provides information about the financial effects of the various concessions granted in modifications of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI, under&#32;the loss mitigation programs described above and about redefaults of certain loans modified in TDRs for the periods presented. Because the specific types and amounts of concessions offered to borrowers frequently change between the trial modification and the permanent modification, the following table presents only the financial effects of permanent modifications. This table also excludes Chapter 7 loans where the sole concession granted is the discharge of debt.At December&#160;31, 2016, the weighted-average estimated remaining lives of residential real estate loans, excluding PCI loans, permanently modified in TDRs were 9&#32;years for home equity and 10&#32;years for residential mortgage. The estimated remaining lives of these loans reflect estimated prepayments, both voluntary and involuntary (i.e., foreclosures and other forced liquidations).&#160;Active and suspended foreclosure&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had non-PCI residential real estate loans, excluding those insured by U.S. government agencies, with a carrying value of&#32;$932 million&#32;and $1.2 billion, respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.Notes to consolidated financial statementsOther consumer loansThe table below provides information for other consumer retained loan classes, including auto, business banking and student loans.Other consumer impaired loans and loan modifications&#32;The following table sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's other consumer impaired loans, including risk-rated business banking and auto loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status, and loans that have been modified in TDRs.&#32;&#160;Loan modifications&#32;Certain other consumer loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they provide various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. All of these TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the table above.The following table provides information about&#32;the Firm's other consumer loans modified in TDRs. New TDRs were not material for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.Purchased credit-impaired loansPCI loans are initially recorded at fair value at acquisition. PCI loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter may be aggregated into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With respect to the Washington Mutual transaction, all of the consumer PCI loans were aggregated into pools of loans with common risk characteristics.On a quarterly basis,&#32;the Firm estimates the total cash flows (both principal and interest) expected to be collected over the remaining life of each pool. These estimates incorporate assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that reflect then-current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected cash flows (i.e., increased credit losses) trigger the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss plus any related forgone interest cash flows, discounted at the pool's effective interest rate. Impairments are recognized through the provision for credit losses and an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in expected cash flows (e.g., decreased credit losses, the net benefit of modifications) would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan losses with any remaining increases recognized prospectively as a yield adjustment over the remaining estimated lives of the underlying loans. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest income.The Firm continues to modify certain PCI loans. The impact of these modifications is incorporated into&#32;the Firm's quarterly assessment of whether a probable and significant change in expected cash flows has occurred, and the loans continue to be accounted for and reported as PCI loans. In evaluating the effect of modifications on expected cash flows,&#32;the Firm incorporates the effect of any forgone interest and also considers the potential for redefault.&#32;The Firm develops product-specific probability of default estimates, which are used to compute expected credit losses. In developing these probabilities of default,&#32;the Firm &#160;considers the relationship between the credit quality characteristics of the underlying loans and certain assumptions about home prices and unemployment based upon industry-wide data.&#32;The Firm also considers its own historical loss experience to-date based on actual redefaulted modified PCI loans.The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value of the underlying loans is referred to as the accretable yield. This amount is not reported on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets but is accreted into interest income at a level rate of return over the remaining estimated lives of the underlying pools of loans.If the timing and/or amounts of expected cash flows on PCI loan pools were determined not to be reasonably estimable, no interest would be accreted and the loan pools would be reported as nonaccrual loans; however, since the timing and amounts of expected cash flows for&#32;the Firm's PCI consumer loan pools are reasonably estimable, interest is being accreted and the loan pools are being reported as performing loans.The liquidation of PCI loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt of payment in full from the borrower, or foreclosure, results in removal of the loans from the underlying PCI pool. When the amount of the liquidation proceeds (e.g., cash, real estate), if any, is less than the unpaid principal balance of the loan, the difference is first applied against the PCI pool's nonaccretable difference for principal losses (i.e., the lifetime credit loss estimate established as a purchase accounting adjustment at the acquisition date). When the nonaccretable difference for a particular loan pool has been fully depleted, any excess of the unpaid principal balance of the loan over the liquidation proceeds is written off against the PCI pool's allowance for loan losses. Beginning in 2014, write-offs of PCI loans also include other adjustments, primarily related to interest forgiveness modifications. Because&#32;the Firm's PCI loans are accounted for at a pool level,&#32;the Firm does not recognize charge-offs of PCI loans when they reach specified stages of delinquency (i.e., unlike non-PCI consumer loans, these loans are not charged off based on FFIEC standards).The PCI portfolio affects&#32;the Firm's results of operations primarily through: (i)&#160;contribution to net interest margin; (ii)&#160;expense related to defaults and servicing resulting from the liquidation of the loans; and (iii)&#160;any provision for loan losses. The PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction were funded based on the interest rate characteristics of the loans. For example, variable-rate loans were funded with variable-rate liabilities and fixed-rate loans were funded with fixed-rate liabilities with a similar maturity profile. A net spread will be earned on the declining balance of the portfolio, which is estimated as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, to have a remaining weighted-average life of&#32;8 years.Notes to consolidated financial statementsResidential real estate &#8211; PCI loansThe table below sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's consumer, excluding credit card, PCI loans.Approximately&#32;24%&#32;of the PCI home equity portfolio are senior lien loans; the remaining balance are junior lien HELOANs or HELOCs. The following table sets forth delinquency statistics for PCI junior lien home equity loans and lines of credit based on the unpaid principal balance as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.The table below sets forth the accretable yield activity for&#32;the Firm's PCI consumer loans for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, and represents&#32;the Firm's estimate of gross interest income expected to be earned over the remaining life of the PCI loan portfolios. The table excludes the cost to fund the PCI portfolios, and therefore the accretable yield does not represent net interest income expected to be earned on these portfolios.Active and suspended foreclosure&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had PCI residential real estate loans with an unpaid principal balance of&#32;$1.7 billion&#32;and $2.3 billion, respectively, that were not included in REO, but were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure.Notes to consolidated financial statementsCredit card loan portfolioThe credit card portfolio segment includes credit card loans originated and purchased by&#32;the Firm. Delinquency rates are the primary credit quality indicator for credit card loans as they provide an early warning that borrowers may be experiencing difficulties&#32;(30 days&#32;past due); information on those borrowers that have been delinquent for a longer period of time&#32;(90 days&#32;past due) is also considered. In addition to delinquency rates, the geographic distribution of the loans provides insight as to the credit quality of the portfolio based on the regional economy.While the borrower's credit score is another general indicator of credit quality,&#32;the Firm does not view credit scores as a primary indicator of credit quality because the borrower's credit score tends to be a lagging indicator. However, the distribution of such scores provides a general indicator of credit quality trends within the portfolio. Refreshed FICO score information, which is obtained at least quarterly, for a statistically significant random sample of the credit card portfolio is indicated in the following table; FICO is considered to be the industry benchmark for credit scores.The Firm generally originates new card accounts to prime consumer borrowers. However, certain cardholders' FICO scores may decrease over time, depending on the performance of the cardholder and changes in credit score technology.&#160;The table below sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's credit card loans.Credit card impaired loans and loan modifications&#32;The table below sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's impaired credit card loans. All of these loans are considered to be impaired as they have been modified in TDRs.The following table presents average balances of impaired credit card loans and interest income recognized on those loans.&#32;Loan modifications&#32;JPMorgan Chase may offer one of a number of loan modification programs to credit card borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. Most of the credit card loans have been modified under long-term programs for borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulties. Modifications under long-term programs involve placing the customer on a fixed payment plan, generally for&#32;60 months. The Firm may also offer short-term programs for borrowers who may be in need of temporary relief; however, none are currently being offered. Modifications under all short- and long-term programs typically include reducing the interest rate on the credit card. Substantially all modifications are considered to be TDRs.&#160;If the cardholder does not comply with the modified payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement reverts back to its pre-modification payment terms. Assuming that the cardholder does not begin to perform in accordance with those payment terms, the loan continues to age and will ultimately be charged-off in accordance with&#32;the Firm's standard charge-off policy. In addition, if a borrower successfully completes a short-term modification program, then the loan reverts back to its pre-modification payment terms. However, in most cases,&#32;the Firm does not reinstate the borrower's line of credit.New enrollments in these loan modification programs for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, were&#32;$636 million, $638 million&#32;and $807 million, respectively.Financial effects of modifications and redefaults&#32;The following table provides information about the financial effects of the concessions granted on credit card loans modified in TDRs and redefaults for the periods presented.For credit card loans modified in TDRs, payment default is deemed to have occurred when the loans become&#32;two&#32;payments past due. A substantial portion of these loans is expected to be charged-off in accordance with&#32;the Firm's standard charge-off policy. Based on historical experience, the estimated weighted-average default rate for modified credit card loans was expected to be&#32;28.87%, 25.61%&#32;and 27.91%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.Notes to consolidated financial statementsWholesale loan portfolioWholesale loans include loans made to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals.The primary credit quality indicator for wholesale loans is the risk rating assigned to each loan. Risk ratings are used to identify the credit quality of loans and differentiate risk within the portfolio. Risk ratings on loans consider the&#32;PD and the LGD. The PD is the likelihood that a loan will default. The LGD is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon the default of the borrower and takes into consideration collateral and structural support for each credit facility.&#32;Management considers several factors to determine an appropriate risk rating, including the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.&#32;The Firm's definition of criticized aligns with the banking regulatory definition of criticized exposures, which consist of special mention, substandard and doubtful categories. Risk ratings generally represent ratings profiles similar to those defined by S&P and Moody's. Investment-grade ratings range from &#8220;AAA/Aaa&#8221; to &#8220;BBB-/Baa3.&#8221; Noninvestment-grade ratings are classified as noncriticized (&#8220;BB+/Ba1 and B-/B3&#8221;) and criticized (&#8220;CCC+&#8221;/&#8220;Caa1 and below&#8221;), and the criticized portion is further subdivided into performing and nonaccrual loans, representing management's assessment of the collectibility of principal and interest. Criticized loans have a higher probability of default than noncriticized loans.&#160;Risk ratings are reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and are adjusted as necessary for updated information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill its obligations.As noted above, the risk rating of a loan considers the industry in which the obligor conducts its operations. As part of the overall credit risk management framework,&#32;the Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry and client exposures, with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concern. See Note&#32;5 for further detail on industry concentrations.The table below provides information by class of receivable for the retained loans in the Wholesale portfolio segment.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following table presents additional information on the real estate class of loans within the Wholesale portfolio for the periods indicated. Exposure consists primarily of secured commercial loans, of which multifamily is the largest segment. Multifamily lending finances acquisition, leasing and construction of apartment buildings, and includes exposure to real estate investment trusts (&#8220;REITs&#8221;). Other commercial lending largely includes financing for acquisition, leasing and construction, largely for office, retail and industrial real estate, and includes exposure to REITs. Included in real estate loans is&#32;$9.2 billion&#32;and $7.3 billion&#32;as of&#32;December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of construction and development exposure consisting of loans originally purposed for construction and development, general purpose loans for builders, as well as loans for land subdivision and pre-development.Wholesale impaired loans and loan modificationsWholesale impaired loans consist of loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status and/or that have been modified in a TDR. All impaired loans are evaluated for an asset-specific allowance as described in Note&#32;15.The table below sets forth information about&#32;the Firm's wholesale impaired loans.The following table presents&#32;the Firm's average impaired loans for the years ended&#32;2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.&#160;Certain loan modifications are considered to be TDRs as they provide various concessions to borrowers who are experiencing financial difficulty. All TDRs are reported as impaired loans in the tables above. TDRs were&#32;$733 million&#32;and $208 million&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Note 15 &#8211; Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers the consumer, including credit card, portfolio segments (primarily scored) and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio, and represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in&#32;the Firm's retained loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses includes a formula-based component, an asset-specific component, and a component related to PCI loans, as described below. Management also estimates an allowance for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments using methodologies similar to those used to estimate the allowance on the underlying loans. During&#32;2016, the Firm did not make any significant changes to the methodologies or policies used to determine its allowance for credit losses; such policies are described in the following paragraphs.&#32;Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Subsequent evaluations of the loan portfolio, in light of the factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments in future periods. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the CRO, the&#32;CFO and the Controller of&#32;the Firm and discussed with the DRPC and the Audit Committee. As of December 31, 2016,&#32;JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate (i.e., sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio).&#32;Formula-based component&#32;The formula-based component is based on a statistical calculation to provide for incurred credit losses in all consumer loans and performing risk-rated loans, except for any loans restructured in TDRs and PCI loans, which are calculated as a part of the asset-specific and PCI components, respectively, and are discussed later in this Note. See Note&#32;14 for more information on TDRs and PCI loans.&#32;Formula-based component - Consumer loans and certain lending-related commitments&#32;The formula-based allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio segments is calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors (estimated PD and loss severities) to the recorded investment balances or loan-equivalent amounts of pools of loan exposures with similar risk characteristics over a loss emergence period to arrive at an estimate of incurred credit losses. Estimated loss emergence periods may vary by product and may change over time; management applies judgment in estimating loss emergence periods, using available credit information and trends. In addition, management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio category, using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate the total incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Management uses additional statistical methods and considers actual portfolio performance, including actual &#160;losses recognized on defaulted loans and collateral valuation trends, to review the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate. The economic impact of potential modifications of residential real estate loans is not included in the statistical calculation because of the uncertainty regarding the type and results of such modifications. The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and current economic events that have occurred but that are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation; these adjustments are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. However, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, taking into account uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards, borrower behavior, the potential impact of payment recasts within the HELOC portfolio, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. In certain instances, the interrelationships between these factors create further uncertainties. For example, the performance of a HELOC that experiences a payment recast may be affected by both the quality of underwriting standards applied in originating the loan and the general economic conditions in effect at the time of the payment recast. For junior lien products, management considers the delinquency and/or modification status of any senior liens in determining the adjustment. The application of different inputs into the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by management to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to management judgment, and emphasizing one input or assumption over another, or considering other inputs or assumptions, could affect the estimate of the allowance for credit losses for the consumer credit portfolio.&#32;Overall, the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is sensitive to changes in the economic environment (e.g., unemployment rates), delinquency rates, the realizable value of collateral (e.g., housing prices), FICO scores, borrower behavior and other risk factors. While all of these factors are important determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in the various factors may not occur at the same time or at the same rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors would not necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity of losses or both.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsFormula-based component - Wholesale loans and lending-related commitments&#32;The Firm's methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments involves the early identification of credits that are deteriorating. The formula-based component of the allowance for wholesale loans and lending-related commitments is calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors (estimated PD and LGD) to the recorded investment balances or loan-equivalent amount over a loss emergence period to arrive at an estimate of incurred credit losses.The Firm assesses the credit quality of its borrower or counterparty and assigns a risk rating. Risk ratings are assigned at origination or acquisition, and if necessary, adjusted for changes in credit quality over the life of the exposure. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan or lending-related commitment, among the factors considered are the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an evaluation of historical and current information and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Determining risk ratings involves significant judgment; emphasizing one factor over another or considering additional factors could affect the risk rating assigned by&#32;the Firm.PD estimates are based on observable external through-the-cycle data, using credit rating agency default statistics.&#32;An LGD estimate is assigned to each loan or lending-related commitment. The estimate represents the amount of economic loss if the obligor were to default. The type of obligor, quality of collateral, and the seniority of&#32;the Firm's lending exposure in the obligor's capital structure affect LGD. LGD estimates are based on&#32;the Firm's history of actual credit losses over more than one credit cycle. Changes to the time period used for PD and LGD estimates (for example, point-in-time loss versus longer-term views of the credit cycle) could also affect the allowance for credit losses.&#32;The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD, LGD, loss emergence period and loan-equivalent amounts used in calculating the allowance for credit losses. Wherever possible,&#32;the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or&#32;the Firm's own historical loss experience in its models for estimating the allowances, but differences in characteristics between&#32;the Firm's specific loans or lending-related commitments and those reflected in external and&#32;Firm-specific historical data could affect loss estimates. Estimates of PD, LGD, loss emergence period and loan-equivalent used are subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying external or Firm-specific historical data. The use of different inputs, estimates or methodologies could change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by&#32;the Firm.&#160;In addition to the modeled loss estimates applied to wholesale loans and lending-related commitments, management applies its judgment to adjust the modeled loss estimates for wholesale loans,&#32;taking into consideration model imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both LGD and PD are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based on management's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic, quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.&#32;Asset-specific component&#32;The asset-specific component of the allowance relates to loans considered to be impaired, which includes loans that have been modified in TDRs as well as risk-rated loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. To determine the asset-specific component of the allowance, larger loans are evaluated individually, while smaller loans are evaluated as pools using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets. Scored loans (i.e., consumer loans) are pooled by product type, while risk-rated loans (primarily wholesale loans) are segmented by risk rating.&#32;The Firm generally measures the asset-specific allowance as the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected, discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate. Subsequent changes in impairment are reported as an adjustment to the allowance for loan losses. In certain cases, the asset-specific allowance is determined using an observable market price, and the allowance is measured as the difference between the recorded investment in the loan and the loan's fair value. Impaired collateral-dependent loans are charged down to the fair value of collateral less costs to sell. For any of these impaired loans, the amount of the asset-specific allowance required to be recorded, if any, is dependent upon the recorded investment in the loan (including prior charge-offs), expected cash flows and/or fair value of assets. See Note&#32;14 for more information about charge-offs and collateral-dependent loans.&#32;The asset-specific component of the allowance for impaired loans that have been modified in TDRs incorporates the effects of forgone interest, if any, in the present value calculation and also incorporates the effect of the modification on the loan's expected cash flows, which considers the potential for redefault. For residential real estate loans modified in TDRs,&#32;the Firm develops product-specific probability of default estimates, which are applied at a loan level to compute expected losses. In developing these probabilities of default,&#32;the Firm considers the relationship between the credit quality characteristics of the underlying loans and certain assumptions about home prices and unemployment, based upon industry-wide data.&#32;The Firm also considers its own historical loss experience to date based on actual redefaulted modified loans. For credit card loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate projected redefaults based on&#32;the Firm's historical experience by type of modification program. For wholesale loans modified in TDRs, expected losses incorporate management's expectation of the borrower's ability to repay under the modified terms.&#32;Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash flows is highly judgmental as these cash flow projections rely upon estimates such as loss severities, asset valuations, default rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), the amounts and timing of interest or principal payments (including any expected prepayments) or other factors that are reflective of current and expected market conditions. These estimates are, in turn, dependent on factors such as the duration of current overall economic conditions, industry-, portfolio-, or borrower-specific factors, the expected outcome of insolvency proceedings as well as, in certain circumstances, other economic factors, including the level of future home prices. All of these estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.&#32;PCI loans&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;In connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain PCI loans, which are accounted for as described in Note 14. The allowance for loan losses for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly estimates of the amount of principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected over the estimated remaining lives of the loans.&#32;These cash flow projections are based on estimates regarding default rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These estimates are dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future home prices, and the duration of current overall economic conditions, among other factors. These estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsAllowance for credit losses and related information&#32;The table below summarizes information about the allowances for loan losses, and lending-relating commitments, and includes a breakdown of loans and lending-related commitments by impairment methodology.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 16 &#8211; Variable interest entitiesFor a further description of&#32;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies regarding consolidation of VIEs, see Note 1.The following table summarizes the most significant types of&#32;Firm-sponsored VIEs by&#32;business segment. The Firm considers a &#8220;sponsored&#8221; VIE to include any entity where: (1)&#32;JPMorgan Chase is the primary beneficiary of the structure; (2)&#160;the VIE is used by&#32;JPMorgan Chase to securitize&#32;Firm assets; (3)&#160;the VIE issues financial instruments with the&#32;JPMorgan Chase name; or (4) the entity is a&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#8211;administered asset-backed commercial paper conduit.The Firm's other business segments are also involved with VIEs, but to a lesser extent, as follows:The Firm also invests in and provides financing and other services to VIEs sponsored by third parties, as described on&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note.Significant Firm-sponsored variable interest entitiesCredit card securitizationsThe Card business securitizes both originated and purchased credit card loans, primarily through the Chase Issuance Trust (the &#8220;Trust&#8221;). The Firm's continuing involvement in credit card securitizations includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided seller's interest in the receivables, retaining certain senior and subordinated securities and maintaining escrow accounts.The Firm is considered to be the primary beneficiary of these Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts based on the Firm's ability to direct the activities of these VIEs through its servicing responsibilities and other duties, including making decisions as to the receivables that are transferred into those trusts and as to any related modifications and workouts. Additionally, the nature and extent of the Firm's other continuing involvement with the trusts, as indicated above, obligates the Firm to absorb losses and gives the Firm the right to receive certain benefits from these VIEs that could potentially be significant.&#160;The underlying securitized credit card receivables and other assets of the securitization trusts are available only for payment of the beneficial interests issued by the securitization trusts; they are not available to pay the Firm's other obligations or the claims of the Firm's creditors.The agreements with the credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest in the credit card trusts (generally 5%). As of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm held undivided interests in Firm-sponsored credit card securitization trusts of $8.9 billion&#32;and $13.6 billion, respectively. The Firm maintained an average undivided interest in principal receivables owned by those trusts of approximately 16%&#32;and 22%&#32;for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. As of both December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm did not retain any senior securities and retained $5.3 billion&#32;of subordinated securities in certain of its credit card securitization trusts. The Firm's undivided interests in the credit card trusts and securities retained are eliminated in consolidation.Firm-sponsored mortgage and other securitization trustsThe Firm securitizes (or has securitized) originated and purchased residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and other consumer loans (including student loans) primarily in its&#32;CCB and CIB businesses. Depending on the &#160;particular transaction, as well as&#32;the respective business involved,&#32;the Firm may act as the servicer of the loans and/or retain certain beneficial interests in the securitization trusts.The following table presents the total unpaid principal amount of assets held in&#32;Firm-sponsored private-label securitization entities, including those in which&#32;the Firm has continuing involvement, and those that are consolidated by&#32;the Firm. Continuing involvement includes servicing the loans, holding senior interests or subordinated interests, recourse or guarantee arrangements, and derivative transactions. In certain instances,&#32;the Firm's only continuing involvement is servicing the loans. See Securitization activity on&#32;page 238&#32;of this Note for further information regarding&#32;the Firm's cash flows with and interests retained in nonconsolidated VIEs, and&#32;pages 238-239&#32;of this Note for information on&#32;the Firm's loan sales to U.S. government agencies.Notes to consolidated financial statementsResidential mortgageThe Firm securitizes residential mortgage loans originated by&#32;CCB, as well as residential mortgage loans purchased from third parties by either&#32;CCB or CIB. CCB generally retains servicing for all residential mortgage loans&#32;it originated or purchased, and for certain mortgage loans purchased by&#32;CIB. For securitizations of loans serviced by&#32;CCB, the Firm has the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE because it is responsible for decisions related to loan modifications and workouts.&#32;CCB may also retain an interest upon securitization.In addition,&#32;CIB engages in underwriting and trading activities involving securities issued by&#32;Firm-sponsored securitization trusts. As a result,&#32;CIB at times retains senior and/or subordinated interests (including residual interests) in residential mortgage securitizations at the time of securitization, and/or reacquires positions in the secondary market in the normal course of business. In certain instances, as a result of the positions retained or reacquired by&#32;CIB or held by&#32;CCB, when considered together with the servicing arrangements entered into by&#32;CCB, the Firm is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of certain securitization trusts. See the table on&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note for more information on consolidated residential mortgage securitizations.The Firm does not consolidate a residential mortgage securitization&#32;(Firm-sponsored or third-party-sponsored) when it is not the servicer (and therefore does not have the power to direct the most significant activities of the trust) or does not hold a beneficial interest in the trust that could potentially be significant to the trust. At&#32;December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Firm did not consolidate the assets of certain&#32;Firm-sponsored residential mortgage securitization VIEs, in which&#32;the Firm had continuing involvement, primarily due to the fact that&#32;the Firm did not hold an interest in these trusts that could potentially be significant to the trusts. See the table on&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note for more information on the consolidated residential mortgage securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated residential mortgage securitizations.Commercial mortgages and other consumer securitizationsCIB originates and securitizes commercial mortgage loans, and engages in underwriting and trading activities involving the securities issued by securitization trusts.&#32;CIB may retain unsold senior and/or subordinated interests in commercial mortgage securitizations at the time of securitization but, generally, the Firm does not service commercial loan securitizations. For commercial mortgage securitizations the power to direct the significant activities of the VIE generally is held by the servicer or investors in a specified class of securities (&#8220;controlling class&#8221;).&#32;The Firm generally does not retain an interest in the controlling class in its sponsored commercial mortgage securitization transactions. See the table on&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note for more information on the consolidated commercial mortgage securitizations,&#32;and the table on the previous &#160;page of this Note for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated securitizations.The Firm retains servicing responsibilities for certain student loan securitizations.&#32;The Firm has the power to direct the activities of these VIEs through these servicing responsibilities. See the table on&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note for more information on the consolidated student loan securitizations, and the table on the previous page of this Note for further information on interests held in nonconsolidated securitizations.Re-securitizationsThe Firm engages in certain re-securitization transactions in which debt securities are transferred to a VIE in exchange for new beneficial interests. These transfers occur in connection with both agency (Federal National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Fannie Mae&#8221;), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (&#8220;Freddie Mac&#8221;) and Government National Mortgage Association (&#8220;Ginnie Mae&#8221;)) and nonagency (private-label) sponsored VIEs, which may be backed by either residential or commercial mortgages. The Firm's consolidation analysis is largely dependent on the Firm's role and interest in the re-securitization trusts. During the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, the Firm transferred $11.2 billion, $21.9 billion&#32;and $22.7 billion, respectively, of securities to agency VIEs, and $647 million, $777 million&#32;and $1.1 billion, respectively, of securities to private-label VIEs.Most re-securitizations with which the Firm is involved are client-driven transactions in which a specific client or group of clients is seeking a specific return or risk profile. For these transactions, the Firm has concluded that the decision-making power of the entity is shared between the Firm and its clients, considering the joint effort and decisions in establishing the re-securitization trust and its assets, as well as the significant economic interest the client holds in the re-securitization trust; therefore the Firm does not consolidate the re-securitization VIE.In more limited circumstances, the Firm creates a nonagency re-securitization trust independently and not in conjunction with specific clients. In these circumstances, the Firm is deemed to have the unilateral ability to direct the most significant activities of the re-securitization trust because of the decisions made during the establishment and design of the trust; therefore, the Firm consolidates the re-securitization VIE if the Firm holds an interest that could potentially be significant.Additionally, the Firm may invest in beneficial interests of third-party re-securitizations and generally purchases these interests in the secondary market. In these circumstances, the Firm does not have the unilateral ability to direct the most significant activities of the re-securitization trust, either because it was not involved in the initial design of the trust, or the Firm is involved with an independent third-party sponsor and demonstrates shared power over the creation of the trust; therefore, the Firm does not consolidate the re-securitization VIE.As of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, total assets (including the notional amount of interest-only securities) of nonconsolidated Firm-sponsored private-label re-securitization entities in which the Firm has continuing involvement were $875 million&#32;and $2.2 billion, respectively. At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm held $2.0 billion&#32;and $4.6 billion, respectively, of interests in nonconsolidated agency re-securitization entities. The Firm's exposure to non-consolidated private-label re-securitization entities as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015&#32;was not material. As of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm did not consolidate any agency re-securitizations. As of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm consolidated an insignificant amount of assets and liabilities of Firm-sponsored private-label re-securitizations.Multi-seller conduitsMulti-seller conduit entities are separate bankruptcy remote entities that provide secured financing, collateralized by pools of receivables and other financial assets, to customers of&#32;the Firm. The conduits fund their financing facilities through the issuance of highly rated commercial paper. The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash flows from the pools of assets. In most instances, the assets are structured with deal-specific credit enhancements provided to the conduits by the customers (i.e., sellers) or other third parties. Deal-specific credit enhancements are generally structured to cover a multiple of historical losses expected on the pool of assets, and are typically in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller. The deal-specific credit enhancements mitigate&#32;the Firm's potential losses on its agreements with the conduits.To ensure timely repayment of the commercial paper, and to provide the conduits with funding to provide financing to customers in the event that the conduits do not obtain funding in the commercial paper market, each asset pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity facility associated with it provided by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. also provides the multi-seller conduit vehicles with uncommitted program-wide liquidity facilities and program-wide credit enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit. The amount of program-wide credit enhancement required is based upon commercial paper issuance and approximates&#32;10%&#32;of the outstanding balance of commercial paper.The Firm consolidates its&#32;Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, as&#32;the Firm has both the power to direct the significant activities of the conduits and a potentially significant economic interest in the conduits. As administrative agent and in its role in structuring transactions,&#32;the Firm makes decisions regarding asset types and credit quality, and manages the commercial paper funding needs of the conduits.&#32;The Firm's interests that could potentially be significant to the VIEs include the fees received as administrative agent and liquidity and program-wide credit enhancement provider, as well as the potential exposure created by the liquidity and credit &#160;enhancement facilities provided to the conduits. See&#32;page 237&#32;of this Note for further information on consolidated VIE assets and liabilities.In the normal course of business,&#32;JPMorgan Chase makes markets in and invests in commercial paper issued by&#32;the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.&#32;The Firm held&#32;$21.2 billion&#32;and $15.7 billion&#32;of the commercial paper issued by&#32;the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#32;The Firm's investments reflect&#32;the Firm's funding needs and capacity and were not driven by market illiquidity.&#32;The Firm is not obligated under any agreement to purchase the commercial paper issued by&#32;the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits.Deal-specific liquidity facilities, program-wide liquidity and credit enhancement provided by the Firm have been eliminated in consolidation. The Firm or the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits provide lending-related commitments to certain clients of the Firm-administered multi-seller conduits. The unfunded commitments were&#32;$7.4 billion&#32;and $5.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, and are reported as off-balance sheet lending-related commitments. For more information on off-balance sheet lending-related commitments, see Note&#32;29.VIEs associated with investor intermediation activities&#32;As a financial intermediary,&#32;the Firm creates certain types of VIEs and also structures transactions with these VIEs, typically using derivatives, to meet investor needs.&#32;The Firm may also provide liquidity and other support. The risks inherent in the derivative instruments or liquidity commitments are managed similarly to other credit, market or liquidity risks to which&#32;the Firm is exposed. The principal types of VIEs for which&#32;the Firm is engaged in on behalf of clients are municipal bond vehicles.Municipal bond vehiclesMunicipal bond vehicles or tender option bond (&#8220;TOB&#8221;) trusts allow investors to finance their municipal bond investments at short-term rates. In a typical TOB transaction, the trust purchases highly rated municipal bond(s) of a single issuer and funds the purchase by issuing two types of securities: (1) puttable floating-rate certificates (&#8220;Floaters&#8221;) and (2) inverse floating-rate residual interests (&#8220;Residuals&#8221;). The Floaters are typically purchased by money market funds or other short-term investors and may be tendered, with requisite notice, to the TOB trust. The Residuals are retained by the investor seeking to finance its municipal bond investment.&#32;TOB transactions where the Residual is held by a third party investor are typically known as Customer TOB trusts, and Non-Customer TOB trusts are transactions where the Residual is retained by&#32;the Firm. The Firm serves as sponsor for all Non-Customer TOB transactions and certain Customer TOB transactions established prior to 2014.&#32;The Firm may provide various services to a TOB trust, including&#32;remarketing agent, liquidity or tender option provider, and/or sponsor.Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Securities LLC may serve as a remarketing agent on the Floaters for TOB trusts. The remarketing agent is responsible for establishing the periodic variable rate on the Floaters, conducting the initial placement and remarketing tendered Floaters. The remarketing agent may, but is not obligated to, make markets in Floaters. At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm held an insignificant amount of Floaters on its Consolidated balance sheets and did not hold any significant amounts during 2016&#32;and 2015.JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P. Morgan Securities LLC often serves as the sole liquidity or tender option provider for the TOB trusts. The liquidity provider's obligation to perform is conditional and is limited by certain events (&#8220;Termination Events&#8221;), which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade. In addition, the liquidity provider's exposure is typically further limited by the high credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds, the excess collateralization in the vehicle, or, in certain transactions, the reimbursement agreements with the Residual holders.&#160;Holders of the Floaters may &#8220;put,&#8221; or tender, their Floaters to the TOB trust. If the remarketing agent cannot successfully remarket the Floaters to another investor, the liquidity provider either provides a loan to the TOB trust for the TOB trust's purchase of the Floaters, or it directly purchases the tendered Floaters. In certain Customer TOB transactions,&#32;the Firm, as liquidity provider, has entered into a reimbursement agreement with the Residual holder. In those transactions, upon the termination of the vehicle, if the proceeds from the sale of the underlying municipal bonds are not sufficient to repay amounts owed to&#32;the Firm, as liquidity or tender option provider,&#32;the Firm has recourse to the third party Residual holders for any shortfall. Residual holders with reimbursement agreements are required to post collateral with&#32;the Firm to support such reimbursement obligations should the market value of the underlying municipal bonds decline.&#32;The Firm does not have any intent to protect Residual holders from potential losses on any of the underlying municipal bonds.TOB trusts are considered to be variable interest entities.&#32;The Firm consolidates Non-Customer TOB trusts because as the Residual holder,&#32;the Firm has the right to make decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle, and it has the right to receive benefits and bear losses that could potentially be significant to the municipal bond vehicle.&#32;The Firm does not consolidate Customer TOB trusts, since&#32;the Firm does not have the power to make decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle. Certain non-consolidated Customer TOB trusts are sponsored by a third party, and not&#32;the Firm. See page 237&#32;of this Note for further information on consolidated municipal bond vehicles.The Firm's exposure to nonconsolidated municipal bond VIEs at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, including the ratings profile of the VIEs' assets, was as follows.VIEs sponsored by third partiesThe Firm enters into transactions with VIEs structured by other parties. These include, for example, acting as a derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor, underwriter, placement agent,&#32;remarketing agent, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted at arm's-length, and individual credit decisions are based on the analysis of the specific VIE, taking into consideration the &#160;quality of the underlying assets. Where&#32;the Firm does not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance, or a variable interest that could potentially be significant,&#32;the Firm records and reports these positions on its Consolidated balance sheets in the same manner it would record and report positions in respect of any other third-party transaction.Consolidated VIE assets and liabilitiesThe following table presents information on assets and liabilities related to VIEs consolidated by&#32;the Firm as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Notes to consolidated financial statementsLoan securitizationsThe Firm has securitized and sold a variety of loans, including residential mortgage, credit card, student and commercial (primarily related to real estate) loans, as well as debt securities. The purposes of these securitization transactions were to satisfy investor demand and to generate liquidity for&#32;the Firm.For loan securitizations in which&#32;the Firm is not required to consolidate the trust,&#32;the Firm records the transfer of the loan receivable to the trust as a sale when all of the following accounting criteria for a sale are met: (1) the transferred financial assets are legally isolated from&#32;the Firm's creditors; (2) the transferee or beneficial interest &#160;holder can pledge or exchange the transferred financial assets; and (3)&#32;the Firm does not maintain effective control over the transferred financial assets (e.g.,&#32;the Firm cannot repurchase the transferred assets before their maturity and it does not have the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return the transferred assets).For loan securitizations accounted for as a sale,&#32;the Firm recognizes a gain or loss based on the difference between the value of proceeds received (including cash, beneficial interests, or servicing assets received) and the carrying value of the assets sold. Gains and losses on securitizations are reported in noninterest revenue.Securitization activityThe following table provides information related to&#32;the Firm's securitization activities for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, related to assets held in&#32;Firm-sponsored securitization entities that were not consolidated by&#32;the Firm, and where sale accounting was achieved based on the accounting rules in effect at the time of the securitization.Loans and excess MSRs sold to U.S. government-sponsored enterprises, loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization entitiesIn addition to the amounts reported in the securitization activity tables above,&#32;the Firm, in the normal course of business, sells originated and purchased mortgage loans and certain originated excess MSRs on a nonrecourse basis, predominantly to U.S. government sponsored enterprises (&#8220;U.S. GSEs&#8221;). These loans and excess MSRs are sold primarily for the purpose of securitization by the U.S. GSEs, who provide certain guarantee provisions (e.g., credit enhancement of the loans).&#32;The Firm also sells loans into securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae &#160;guidelines; these loans are typically insured or guaranteed by another U.S. government agency.&#32;The Firm does not consolidate the securitization vehicles underlying these transactions as it is not the primary beneficiary. For a limited number of loan sales,&#32;the Firm is obligated to share a portion of the credit risk associated with the sold loans with the purchaser. See Note&#32;29 for additional information about&#32;the Firm's loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications.See Note&#32;17 for additional information about the impact of&#32;the Firm's sale of certain excess MSRs.The following table summarizes the activities related to loans sold to the U.S. GSEs, loans in securitization transactions pursuant to Ginnie Mae guidelines, and other third-party-sponsored securitization entities.&#160;Options to repurchase delinquent loansIn addition to&#32;the Firm's obligation to repurchase certain loans due to material breaches of representations and warranties as discussed in Note&#32;29, the Firm also has the option to repurchase delinquent loans that it services for Ginnie Mae loan pools, as well as for other U.S. government agencies under certain arrangements.&#32;The Firm typically elects to repurchase delinquent loans from Ginnie Mae loan pools as it continues to service them and/or manage the foreclosure process in accordance with the applicable requirements, and such loans continue to be insured or guaranteed. When&#32;the Firm's repurchase option becomes exercisable, such loans must be reported on the Consolidated balance sheets as a loan with a corresponding liability. As of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had recorded on its Consolidated balance sheets&#32;$9.6 billion&#32;and $11.1 billion, respectively, of loans that either had been repurchased or for which&#32;the Firm had an option to repurchase. Predominantly all of these amounts relate to loans that have been repurchased from Ginnie Mae loan pools. Additionally,&#32;at December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Firm had real estate owned of $142 million&#32;and $343 million, respectively, and certain foreclosed government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans included in accrued interest and accounts receivable of&#32;$1.0 billion&#32;and $1.1 billion, respectively, resulting from voluntary repurchases of loans. Substantially all of these loans and real estate are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. For additional information, refer to Note&#32;14.Loan delinquencies and liquidation losses&#32;The table below includes information about components of nonconsolidated securitized financial assets held in&#32;Firm-sponsored private-label securitization entities, in which&#32;the Firm has continuing involvement, and delinquencies as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 17 &#8211; Goodwill and Mortgage servicing rightsGoodwillGoodwill is recorded upon completion of a business combination as the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets acquired. Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or more often if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate there may be impairment.The goodwill associated with each business combination is allocated to the related reporting units, which are determined based on how the Firm's businesses are managed and how they are reviewed by the Firm's Operating Committee. The following table presents goodwill attributed to the business segments.The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of goodwill.&#160;Impairment testingThe Firm's goodwill was not impaired at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Further, except for goodwill related to its heritage Private Equity business of $276 million, the Firm's goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2014.The goodwill impairment test is performed in two steps. In the first step, the current fair value of&#32;each reporting unit is compared with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the fair value is in excess of the carrying value (including goodwill), then the&#32;reporting unit's goodwill is considered not to be impaired. If the fair value is less than the carrying value (including goodwill), then a second step is performed. In the second step, the implied current fair value of the&#32;reporting unit's goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of&#32;the reporting unit (as determined in step one) to the fair value of the net assets of&#32;the reporting unit, as if&#32;the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. The resulting implied current fair value of goodwill is then compared with the carrying value of&#32;the reporting unit's goodwill.&#32;If the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds its implied current fair value, then an impairment charge is recognized for the excess. If the carrying value of goodwill is less than its implied current fair value, then no goodwill impairment is recognized.&#32;The Firm uses the reporting units' allocated equity plus goodwill capital as a proxy for the carrying amounts of equity for the reporting units in the goodwill impairment testing. Reporting unit equity is determined on a similar basis as the allocation of equity to the Firm's lines of business, which takes into consideration the capital the business segment would require if it were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address regulatory capital requirements (including Basel III) and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Proposed line of business equity levels are incorporated into the Firm's annual budget process, which is reviewed by the Firm's Board of Directors. Allocated equity is further reviewed on a periodic basis and updated as needed.The primary method the Firm uses to estimate the fair value of its reporting units is the income approach. This approach projects cash flows for the forecast period and uses the perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. These cash flows and terminal values are then discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Projections of cash flows are based on the reporting units' earnings forecasts, which include the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, and which are reviewed with the senior management of the Firm. The discount rate used for each reporting unit represents an estimate of the cost of equity for that reporting unit and is determined considering the Firm's overall estimated cost of equity (estimated using the Capital Asset Pricing Model), as adjusted for the risk characteristics specific to each reporting unit (for example, for higher levels of risk or uncertainty associated with the business or management's forecasts and assumptions). To assess the reasonableness of the discount rates used for each reporting unit management compares the discount rate to the estimated cost of equity for publicly traded institutions with similar businesses and risk characteristics. In addition, the weighted average cost of equity (aggregating the various reporting units) is compared with the Firms' overall estimated cost of equity to ensure reasonableness.The valuations derived from the discounted cash flow analysis are then compared with market-based trading and transaction multiples for relevant competitors. Trading and transaction comparables are used as general indicators to assess the general reasonableness of the estimated fair values, although precise conclusions generally cannot be drawn due to the differences that naturally exist between the Firm's businesses and competitor institutions. Management also takes into consideration a comparison between the aggregate fair values of the Firm's reporting units and JPMorgan Chase's market capitalization. In evaluating this comparison, management considers several factors, including (i) a control premium that would exist in a market transaction, (ii) factors related to the level of execution risk that would exist at the firmwide level that do not exist at the reporting unit level and (iii) short-term market volatility and other factors that do not directly affect the value of individual reporting units.Declines in business performance, increases in credit losses, increases in equity capital requirements, as well as deterioration in economic or market conditions, estimates of adverse regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the estimated market cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of&#32;the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.&#32;&#160;Mortgage servicing rightsMSRs represent the fair value of expected future cash flows for performing servicing activities for others. The fair value considers estimated future servicing fees and ancillary revenue, offset by estimated costs to service the loans, and generally declines over time as net servicing cash flows are received, effectively amortizing the MSR asset against contractual servicing and ancillary fee income. MSRs are either purchased from third parties or recognized upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans if servicing is retained.As permitted by U.S. GAAP,&#32;the Firm has elected to account for its MSRs at fair value.&#32;The Firm treats its MSRs as a single class of servicing assets based on the availability of market inputs used to measure the fair value of its MSR asset and its treatment of MSRs as one aggregate pool for risk management purposes.&#32;The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs using an option-adjusted spread (&#8220;OAS&#8221;) model, which projects MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios in conjunction with&#32;the Firm's prepayment model, and then discounts these cash flows at risk-adjusted rates. The model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, costs to service, late charges and other ancillary revenue, and other economic factors.&#32;The Firm compares fair value estimates and assumptions to observable market data where available, and also considers recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe fair value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates, including their effect on prepayment speeds. MSRs typically decrease in value when interest rates decline because declining interest rates tend to increase prepayments and therefore reduce the expected life of the net servicing cash flows that comprise the MSR asset. Conversely, securities (e.g., mortgage-backed securities), principal-only certificates and certain derivatives (i.e., &#160;those for which&#32;the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) increase in value when interest rates decline.&#32;JPMorgan Chase uses combinations of derivatives and securities to manage the risk of changes in the fair value of MSRs. The intent is to offset any interest-rate related changes in the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instruments.The following table summarizes MSR activity for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.The following table presents the components of mortgage fees and related income (including the impact of MSR risk management activities) for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.&#160;The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of&#32;the Firm's MSRs at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, and outlines the sensitivities of those fair values to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions, as defined below.CPR: Constant prepayment rate.The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be used with caution. Changes in fair value based on variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated, because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value are often highly interrelated and may not be linear. In this table, the effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which would either magnify or counteract the impact of the initial change.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 18 &#8211; Premises and equipmentPremises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;computes depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an asset. For leasehold improvements,&#32;the Firm uses the straight-line method computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the estimated useful life of the leased asset.&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software's expected useful life and reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis.&#32;Note 19 &#8211; DepositsAt&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing deposits were as follows.&#32;At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, time deposits in denominations of $250,000 or more were as follows.At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, the maturities of interest-bearing time deposits were as follows.&#32;&#160;Note 20 &#8211; Accounts payable and other liabilitiesAccounts payable and other liabilities consist of brokerage payables, which includes payables to customers, dealers and clearing organizations, and payables from security purchases that did not settle; income taxes payables; accrued expense, including interest-bearing liabilities; and all other liabilities, including litigation reserves and obligations to return securities received as collateral.The following table details the components of accounts payable and other liabilities.Note 21 &#8211; Long-term debtJPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, predominantly U.S. dollars, with both fixed and variable interest rates. Included in senior and subordinated debt below are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments, which&#32;the Firm has elected to measure at fair value. Changes in fair value are recorded in principal transactions revenue in the Consolidated statements of income. The following table is a summary of long-term debt carrying values (including unamortized premiums and discounts, issuance costs, valuation adjustments and fair value adjustments, where applicable) by remaining contractual maturity as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016.Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe weighted-average contractual interest rates for total long-term debt excluding structured notes accounted for at fair value were&#32;2.49%&#32;and 2.34%&#32;as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. In order to modify exposure to interest rate&#32;and currency exchange rate movements,&#32;JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate&#32;and cross-currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its debt issues. The use of these instruments modifies&#32;the Firm's interest expense on the associated debt. The modified weighted-average interest rates for total long-term debt, including the effects of related derivative instruments, were&#32;2.01%&#32;and 1.64%&#32;as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#32;JPMorgan Chase & Co. has guaranteed certain&#32;long-term debt of its subsidiaries, including both long-term debt and structured notes. These guarantees rank on parity with&#32;the Firm's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The amount of such guaranteed long-term debt and structured notes was $3.9 billion&#32;and $152 million&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#32;The Firm's unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in&#32;the Firm's credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings&#32;or stock price.&#160;Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm had outstanding&#32;eight&#32;wholly-owned Delaware statutory business trusts (&#8220;issuer trusts&#8221;) that had issued trust preferred securities.The junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures issued by&#32;the Firm to the issuer trusts, totaling&#32;$2.3 billion&#32;and $4.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, were reflected on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets in long-term debt, and in the table on the preceding page under the caption &#8220;Junior subordinated debt.&#8221;&#32;The Firm also records the common capital securities issued by the issuer trusts in other assets in its Consolidated balance sheets at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. Beginning in 2014, the debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm, less the common capital securities of the issuer trusts, began being phased out from inclusion as Tier 1 capital under Basel III and they were fully phased out as of December&#160;31, 2016. As of December 31, 2015, $992 million&#32;of these debentures qualified as Tier 1 capital. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, $1.4 billion&#32;and $3.0 billion, respectively, qualified as Tier 2 capital.The Firm redeemed $1.6 billion&#32;and $1.5 billion&#32;of trust preferred securities in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.Note 22 &#8211; Preferred stockAt December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, JPMorgan Chase&#32;was authorized to issue 200 million&#32;shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1&#32;per share.&#160;In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm, JPMorgan Chase's preferred stock then outstanding takes precedence over the Firm's common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets.The following is a summary of JPMorgan Chase's non-cumulative preferred stock outstanding as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Each series of preferred stock has a liquidation value and redemption price per share of $10,000, plus accrued but unpaid dividends.Dividends on fixed-rate preferred stock are payable quarterly. Dividends on fixed-to-floating-rate preferred stock are payable semiannually while at a fixed rate, and become payable quarterly after converting to a floating rate.Redemption rightsEach series of the Firm's preferred stock may be redeemed on any dividend payment date on or after the earliest redemption date for that series. All outstanding preferred stock series except Series I may also be redeemed following a &#8220;capital treatment event&#8221;, as described in the terms of each series. Any redemption of the Firm's preferred stock is subject to non-objection from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;).&#160;Note 23 &#8211; Common stockAt December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, JPMorgan Chase&#32;was authorized to issue 9.0 billion&#32;shares of common stock with a par value of $1&#32;per share.Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) by JPMorgan Chase&#32;during the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014&#32;were as follows.Notes to consolidated financial statementsAt December&#160;31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, the Firm had 24.9 million, 47.4 million&#32;and 59.8 million&#32;warrants outstanding to purchase shares of common stock (the &#8220;Warrants&#8221;). The Warrants are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and they are exercisable, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time until October&#160;28, 2018. The original warrant exercise price was $42.42&#32;per share. The number of shares issuable upon the exercise of each warrant and the warrant exercise price is subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events, including, but not limited to, the extent to which regular quarterly cash dividends exceed $0.38&#32;per share. As a result of the Firm's quarterly common stock dividend exceeding $0.38&#32;per share commencing with the second quarter of 2014, the exercise price of the Warrants has been adjusted each subsequent quarter. As of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;the exercise price was $42.073&#32;and the Warrant share number was 1.01.On June&#160;29, 2016, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve's release of its 2016 CCAR results, the Firm's Board of Directors authorized a $10.6 billion&#32;common equity (i.e., common stock and warrants) repurchase program. As of December&#160;31, 2016, $6.1 billion&#32;(on a settlement-date basis) of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the program. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's equity-based compensation plans.The following table sets forth the Firm's repurchases of common equity for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, on a settlement-date basis. There were no&#32;warrants repurchased during the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity &#8212; for example, during internal trading &#8220;blackout periods.&#8221; All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information. For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities, on page 22.As of December&#160;31, 2016, approximately 154 million&#32;shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under various employee incentive, compensation, option and stock purchase plans, director compensation plans, and the Warrants.&#160;Note 24 &#8211; Earnings per shareEarnings per share (&#8220;EPS&#8221;) is calculated under the two-class method under which all earnings (distributed and undistributed) are allocated to each class of common stock and participating securities based on their respective rights to receive dividends. JPMorgan Chase&#32;grants restricted stock and RSUs to certain employees under its stock-based compensation programs, which entitle recipients to receive nonforfeitable dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to the dividends paid to holders of common stock; these unvested awards meet the definition of participating securities. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.Note 25 &#8211; Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) AOCI includes the after-tax change in unrealized gains and losses on investment securities, foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related derivatives), cash flow hedging activities, and net loss and prior service costs/(credit) related to&#32;the Firm's defined benefit pension and OPEB plans.&#32;Effective January 1, 2016,&#32;the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial liabilities where the fair value option has been elected. This guidance requires the portion of the total change in fair value caused by changes in&#32;the Firm's own credit risk (&#8220;DVA&#8221;) to be presented separately in OCI; previously these amounts were recognized in net income. The guidance was required to be applied as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption by means of a cumulative effect adjustment to the Consolidated balance sheets, which resulted in a reclassification from retained earnings to AOCI.&#32;The following table presents the pre-tax and after-tax changes in the components of OCI.Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 26 &#8211; Income taxes JPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset and liability method to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. This method requires that income taxes reflect the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference is determined based on the tax rates that the Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying items of income and expense are realized. JPMorgan Chase's expense for income taxes includes the current and deferred portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of&#32;the Firm's businesses, and from conducting business and being taxed in a substantial number of jurisdictions, significant judgments and estimates are required to be made. Agreement of tax liabilities between&#32;JPMorgan Chase and the many tax jurisdictions in which&#32;the Firm files tax returns may not be finalized for several years. Thus,&#32;the Firm's final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately be different from those currently reported.Effective tax rate and expenseA reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate to the effective tax rate for each of the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, is presented in the following table.&#160;The components of income tax expense/(benefit) included in the Consolidated statements of income were as follows for each of the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.Total income tax expense includes&#32;$55 million, $2.4 billion&#32;and $451 million&#32;of tax benefits recorded in&#32;2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, as a result of tax audit resolutions.Tax effect of items recorded in stockholders' equityThe preceding table does not reflect the tax effect of certain items that are recorded each period directly in&#32;stockholders' equity. The tax effect of all items recorded directly to stockholders' equity resulted in an increase of $925 million&#32;in 2016, an increase of $1.5 billion&#32;in 2015, and a decrease of $140 million&#32;in 2014. Effective January 1, 2016, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to employee share-based payments. As a result of the adoption of this new guidance, all excess tax benefits (including tax benefits from dividends or dividend equivalents) on share-based payment awards are recognized within income tax expense in the Consolidated statements of income. In prior years these tax benefits were recorded as increases to additional paid-in capital.Results from Non-U.S. earningsThe following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components of income before income tax expense for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. Based on&#32;JPMorgan Chase's ongoing review of the business requirements and capital needs of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, combined with the formation of specific strategies and steps taken to fulfill these requirements and needs,&#32;the Firm has determined that the undistributed earnings of certain of its subsidiaries would be indefinitely reinvested to fund current and future growth of the related businesses. As management does not intend to use the earnings of these subsidiaries as a source of funding for its U.S. operations, such earnings will not be distributed to the U.S. in the foreseeable future. For&#32;2016, pretax earnings of&#32;$3.8 billion&#32;were generated and will be indefinitely reinvested in these subsidiaries. At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, the cumulative amount of undistributed pretax earnings in these subsidiaries were&#32;$38.4 billion. If&#32;the Firm were to record a deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings, the amount would be&#32;$8.8 billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016.These undistributed earnings are related to subsidiaries located predominantly in the U.K. where the 2016 tax rate was&#32;28%.Affordable housing tax creditsThe Firm recognized $1.7 billion, $1.6 billion&#32;and $1.6 billion&#32;of tax credits and other tax benefits associated with investments in affordable housing projects within income tax expense for the years 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively. The amount of amortization of such investments reported in income tax expense under the current period presentation during these years was $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion&#32;and $1.1 billion, respectively. The carrying value of these investments, which are reported in other assets on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets, was $8.8 billion&#32;and $7.7 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. The amount of commitments related to these investments, which are reported in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets, was $2.8 billion&#32;and $2.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#160;Deferred taxes&#32;Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) results from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting purposes versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. If a deferred tax asset is determined to be unrealizable, a valuation allowance is established. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.JPMorgan Chase has recorded deferred tax assets of $2.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016, in connection with U.S. federal and non-U.S. NOL carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards. At December&#160;31, 2016, total U.S. federal NOL carryforwards were approximately $3.8 billion&#32;and non-U.S. NOL carryforwards were $142 million. If not utilized, the U.S. federal NOL carryforwards will expire between 2025 and 2036 and the non-U.S. NOL carryforwards will expire in 2017. Foreign tax credit carryforwards were $776 million&#32;and will expire between 2022 and 2026.The valuation allowance at December 31, 2016, was due to losses associated with non-U.S. subsidiaries.Notes to consolidated financial statementsUnrecognized tax benefitsAt December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits, excluding related interest expense and penalties, were $3.5 billion, $3.5 billion&#32;and $4.9 billion, respectively, of which $2.6 billion, $2.1 billion&#32;and $3.5 billion, respectively, if recognized, would reduce the annual effective tax rate. Included in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits are certain items that would not affect the effective tax rate if they were recognized in the Consolidated statements of income. These unrecognized items include the tax effect of certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state and local unrecognized tax benefits that would be offset by the benefit from associated U.S. federal income tax deductions, and the portion of gross non-U.S. unrecognized tax benefits that would have offsets in other jurisdictions. JPMorgan Chase&#32;is presently under audit by a number of taxing authorities, most notably by the Internal Revenue Service as summarized in the Tax examination status table below. As JPMorgan Chase is presently under audit by a number of taxing authorities, it is reasonably possible that over the next 12 months the resolution of these examinations may increase or decrease the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits by as much as $800 million. Upon settlement of an audit, the change in the unrecognized tax benefit would result from payment or income statement recognition.The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.After-tax interest expense/(benefit) and penalties related to income tax liabilities recognized in income tax expense were $86 million, $(156) million&#32;and $17 million&#32;in 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively.At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, in addition to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, the Firm had accrued $687 million&#32;and $578 million, respectively, for income tax-related interest and penalties.&#160;Tax examination statusJPMorgan Chase&#32;is continually under examination by the Internal Revenue Service, by taxing authorities throughout the world, and by many state and local jurisdictions throughout the U.S. The following table summarizes the status of significant income tax examinations of JPMorgan Chase and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December&#160;31, 2016.Note 27 &#8211; Restrictions on cash and intercompany funds transfersThe business of&#32;JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;) is subject to examination and regulation by the OCC. The Bank is a member of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, and its deposits in the U.S. are insured by the FDIC, subject to applicable limits.The Federal Reserve requires depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank. The average required amount of reserve balances deposited by&#32;the Firm's bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $19.3 billion&#32;and $14.4 billion&#32;in 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.Restrictions imposed by U.S. federal law prohibit&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;& Co. (&#8220;Parent Company&#8221;) and certain of its affiliates from borrowing from&#32;banking subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such secured loans&#32;provided by any banking subsidiary to the Parent Company or to any particular affiliate, together with certain other transactions with such affiliate, (collectively referred to as &#8220;covered transactions&#8221;), are generally limited to&#32;10%&#32;of the banking subsidiary's total capital, as determined by the risk-based capital guidelines; the aggregate amount of covered transactions between&#32;any banking subsidiary and all of its affiliates is limited to 20%&#32;of the banking subsidiary's total capital.Prior to the establishment of the IHC in the fourth quarter of 2016, the principal sources of the Parent Company's income were dividends and interest from the various bank and non-bank subsidiaries of the Firm; the principal source of the Parent Company's income, commencing with the fourth quarter, will be dividends from the IHC and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the two principal subsidiaries of the Parent Company. In addition to dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations,&#32;the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;and its subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies, if, in the banking regulator's opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.At&#32;January&#160;1, 2017, JPMorgan Chase's banking subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, approximately&#32;$20 billion&#32;in dividends to&#32;their respective bank holding companies without the prior approval of&#32;their relevant banking regulators. The capacity to pay dividends in&#32;2017&#32;will be supplemented by&#32;the banking subsidiaries' earnings during the year.In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators, as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, cash in the amount of $13.4 billion&#32;and $13.2 billion, respectively, were segregated in special bank accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers. Also, as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had receivables within other assets of $16.1 billion&#32;&#160;and $15.6 billion, respectively, consisting of cash deposited with clearing organizations for the benefit of customers. Securities with a fair value of $19.3 billion&#32;and $20.0 billion, respectively, were also restricted in relation to customer activity. In addition, as of December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had other restricted cash of $3.6 billion&#32;and $3.1 billion, respectively, primarily representing cash reserves held at non-U.S. central banks and held for other general purposes. Prior period amounts for segregated cash, receivables within other assets, and other restricted cash have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.Note 28 &#8211; Regulatory capital The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company. The OCC establishes similar minimum capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A.Capital rules under Basel III establish minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its IDI subsidiaries. Basel III presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA: a general (standardized) approach (&#8220;Basel III Standardized&#8221;) and an advanced approach (&#8220;Basel III Advanced&#8221;). Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began on January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 (&#8220;transitional period&#8221;). There are three categories of risk-based capital under the Basel III Transitional rules:&#32;CET1 capital, as well as Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. CET1 capital predominantly includes common&#32;stockholders' equity (including capital for&#32;AOCI related to debt and equity securities classified as&#32;AFS as well as for defined-benefit pension and OPEB plans), less certain deductions for goodwill, MSRs and deferred tax assets that arise from NOL and tax credit carryforwards. Tier 1 capital predominantly consists of CET1 capital as well as perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital includes long-term debt qualifying as Tier 2 and qualifying allowance for credit losses. Total capital is Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital. Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe following tables present the regulatory capital, assets and risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant national bank subsidiaries under both Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional at December 31, 2016 and 2015. &#160;Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, JPMorgan Chase is required to maintain minimum ratios of CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital to RWA, as well as a minimum leverage ratio (which is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average assets). Failure to meet these minimum requirements could cause the Federal Reserve to take action. National bank subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their respective primary regulators.The following table presents the minimum ratios to which the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016. Note: The ratios presented in the table above are as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC and to which the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries are subject.As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, JPMorgan Chase and all of its banking subsidiaries were well-capitalized and met all capital requirements to which each was subject.&#160;Note 29 &#8211; Off&#8211;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase&#32;provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to&#32;the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or&#32;the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees are refinanced, extended, cancelled, or expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in&#32;the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements.&#32;To provide for probable credit losses inherent in wholesale and certain consumer lending-commitments, an allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained.&#32;See Note 15 for further information regarding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments. The following table summarizes the contractual amounts and carrying values of off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The amounts in the table below for credit card and home equity lending-related commitments represent the total available credit for these products.&#32;The Firm has not experienced, and does not anticipate, that all available lines of credit for these products will be utilized at the same time.&#32;The Firm can reduce or cancel credit card lines of credit by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases as permitted by law, without notice.&#32;In addition,&#32;the Firm typically closes credit card lines when the borrower is&#32;60 days&#32;or more past due.&#32;The Firm may reduce or close HELOCs when there are significant decreases in the value of the underlying property, or when there has been a demonstrable decline in the creditworthiness of the borrower.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsOther unfunded commitments to extend credit&#32;Other unfunded commitments to extend credit generally consist of commitments for working capital and general corporate purposes, extensions of credit to support commercial paper facilities and bond financings in the event that those obligations cannot be remarketed to new investors, as well as committed liquidity facilities to clearing organizations.&#32;The Firm also issues commitments under multipurpose facilities which could be drawn upon in several forms, including the issuance of a standby letter of credit.&#32;The Firm acts as a settlement and custody bank in the U.S. tri-party repurchase transaction market. In its role as settlement and custody bank,&#32;the Firm is exposed to the intra-day credit risk of its cash borrower clients, usually broker-dealers.&#32;This exposure arises under secured clearance advance facilities that&#32;the Firm extends to its clients (i.e. cash borrowers); these facilities contractually limit&#32;the Firm's intra-day credit risk to the facility amount&#32;and must be repaid by the end of the day. As of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the secured clearance advance facility maximum outstanding commitment amount was&#32;$2.4 billion&#32;and $2.9 billion, respectively.&#32;Guarantees&#32;U.S. GAAP requires that a guarantor recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. U.S. GAAP defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently requires the guarantor to pay a guaranteed party based upon: (a) changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security of the guaranteed party; or (b) a third party's failure to perform under a specified agreement.&#32;The Firm considers the following off&#8211;balance sheet lending-related arrangements to be guarantees under U.S. GAAP: standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees, securities lending indemnifications, certain indemnification agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain derivative contracts.&#32;As required by U.S. GAAP,&#32;the Firm initially records guarantees at the inception date fair value of the obligation &#160;assumed (e.g., the amount of consideration received or the net present value of the premium receivable). For certain types of guarantees,&#32;the Firm records this fair value amount in other liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in cash (for premiums received), or other assets (for premiums receivable). Any premium receivable recorded in other assets is reduced as cash is received under the contract, and the fair value of the liability recorded at inception is amortized into income as lending and deposit-related fees over the life of the guarantee contract. For indemnifications provided in sales agreements, a portion of the sale proceeds is allocated to the guarantee, which adjusts the gain or loss that would otherwise result from the transaction. For these indemnifications, the initial liability is amortized to income as&#32;the Firm's risk is reduced (i.e., over time or when the indemnification expires). Any contingent liability that exists as a result of issuing the guarantee or indemnification is recognized when it becomes probable and reasonably estimable. The contingent portion of the liability is not recognized if the estimated amount is less than the carrying amount of the liability recognized at inception (adjusted for any amortization).&#32;The recorded amounts of the liabilities related to guarantees and indemnifications at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, excluding the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments, are discussed below.&#32;Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees&#32;Standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees are conditional lending commitments issued by&#32;the Firm to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party under certain arrangements, such as commercial paper facilities, bond financings, acquisition financings, trade and similar transactions. The carrying values of standby and other letters of credit were&#32;$588 million&#32;and $550&#160;million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, which were classified in accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated balance sheets; these carrying values included&#32;$147 million&#32;and $123&#160;million, respectively, for the allowance for lending-related commitments, and&#32;$441 million&#32;and $427 million, respectively, for the guarantee liability and corresponding asset.&#32;The following table summarizes the types of facilities under which standby letters of credit and other letters of credit arrangements are outstanding by the ratings profiles of&#32;the Firm's customers, as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015.Standby letters of credit, other financial guarantees and other letters of creditNotes to consolidated financial statementsSecurities lending indemnifications&#32;Through&#32;the Firm's securities lending program, customers' securities, via custodial and non-custodial arrangements, may be lent to third parties. As part of this program,&#32;the Firm provides an indemnification in the lending agreements which protects the lender against the failure of the borrower to return the lent securities. To minimize its liability under these indemnification agreements,&#32;the Firm obtains cash or other highly liquid collateral with a market value exceeding&#32;100%&#32;of the value of the securities on loan from the borrower. Collateral is marked to market daily to help assure that collateralization is adequate. Additional collateral is called from the borrower if a shortfall exists, or collateral may be released to the borrower in the event of overcollateralization. If a borrower defaults,&#32;the Firm would use the collateral held to purchase replacement securities in the market or to credit the lending customer with the cash equivalent thereof.&#32;Derivatives qualifying as guarantees&#32;The Firm transacts certain derivative contracts that have the characteristics of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP. These contracts include written put options that require&#32;the Firm to purchase assets upon exercise by the option holder at a specified price by a specified date in the future.&#32;The Firm may enter into written put option contracts in order to meet client needs, or for other trading purposes. The terms of written put options are typically five years or less. Derivatives deemed to be guarantees also include contracts such as stable value derivatives that require&#32;the Firm to make a payment of the difference between the market value and the book value of a counterparty's reference portfolio of assets in the event that market value is less than book value and certain other conditions have been met. Stable value derivatives, commonly referred to as &#8220;stable value wraps,&#8221; are transacted in order to allow investors to realize investment returns with less volatility than an unprotected portfolio and are typically longer-term or may have no stated maturity, but allow&#32;the Firm to elect to terminate the contract under certain conditions.&#32;Derivatives deemed to be guarantees are recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value in trading assets and trading liabilities.&#32;The total notional value of the derivatives that&#32;the Firm deems to be guarantees was&#32;$52.0 billion&#32;and $53.8 billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively. The notional amount generally represents&#32;the Firm's maximum exposure to derivatives qualifying as guarantees. However, exposure to certain stable value contracts is contractually limited to a substantially lower percentage of the notional amount; the notional amount on these stable value contracts was&#32;$28.7 billion&#32;and $28.4&#160;billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, and the maximum exposure to loss was&#32;$3.0 billion&#32;at both December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015. The fair values of the contracts reflect the probability of whether&#32;the Firm will be required to perform under the contract. The fair value related to derivatives that&#32;the Firm deems to be guarantees were derivative payables of&#32;$96 million&#32;and $236&#160;million&#32;and derivative receivables of&#32;$16 million&#32;and $14&#160;million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#32;The Firm reduces exposures to these contracts by entering &#160;into offsetting transactions, or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to the derivative guarantees.&#32;In addition to derivative contracts that meet the characteristics of a guarantee,&#32;the Firm is both a purchaser and seller of credit protection in the credit derivatives market. For a further discussion of credit derivatives, see Note&#32;6.Unsettled reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements, and unsettled repurchase and securities lending agreements&#32;In the normal course of business,&#32;the Firm enters into reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing agreements, which are secured financing agreements. Such agreements settle at a future date. At settlement, these commitments result in&#32;the Firm advancing cash to and receiving securities collateral from the counterparty.&#32;The Firm also enters into repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements. At settlement, these commitments result in&#32;the Firm receiving cash from and providing securities collateral to the counterparty. These agreements generally do not meet the definition of a derivative, and therefore, are not recorded on the Consolidated balance sheets until settlement date. These agreements predominantly consist of agreements with regular-way settlement periods. For a further discussion of securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed, and securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities loaned, see Note&#32;13.Loan sales- and securitization-related indemnifications&#32;Mortgage repurchase liability&#32;In connection with&#32;the Firm's mortgage loan sale and securitization activities with GSEs, as described in Note&#32;16, the Firm has made representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements that may require&#32;the Firm to repurchase mortgage loans and/or indemnify the loan purchaser. Further, although&#32;the Firm's securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse,&#32;the Firm does provide recourse servicing in certain limited cases where it agrees to share credit risk with the owner of the mortgage loans. To the extent that repurchase demands that are received relate to loans that&#32;the Firm purchased from third parties that remain viable,&#32;the Firm typically will have the right to seek a recovery of related repurchase losses from the third party. Generally, the maximum amount of future payments&#32;the Firm would be required to make for breaches of these representations and warranties would be equal to the unpaid principal balance of such loans that are deemed to have defects that were sold to purchasers (including securitization-related SPEs) plus, in certain circumstances, accrued interest on such loans and certain expense.&#32;Private label securitizationsThe liability related to repurchase demands associated with private label securitizations is separately evaluated by&#32;the Firm in establishing its litigation reserves.&#32;For additional information regarding litigation, see Note&#32;31.Loans sold with recourse&#32;The Firm provides servicing for mortgages and certain commercial lending products on both a recourse and nonrecourse basis. In nonrecourse servicing, the principal credit risk to&#32;the Firm is the cost of temporary servicing advances of funds (i.e., normal servicing advances). In recourse servicing, the servicer agrees to share credit risk with the owner of the mortgage loans, such as Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or a private investor, insurer or guarantor. Losses on recourse servicing predominantly occur when foreclosure sales proceeds of the property underlying a defaulted loan are less than the sum of the outstanding principal balance, plus accrued interest on the loan and the cost of holding and disposing of the underlying property.&#32;The Firm's securitizations are predominantly nonrecourse, thereby effectively transferring the risk of future credit losses to the purchaser of the mortgage-backed securities issued by the trust. At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the unpaid principal balance of loans sold with recourse totaled&#32;$2.7 billion&#32;and $4.3 billion, respectively. The carrying value of the related liability that&#32;the Firm has recorded, which is representative of&#32;the Firm's view of the likelihood it will have to perform under its recourse obligations, was&#32;$64 million&#32;and $82 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively.&#32;Other off-balance sheet arrangements&#32;Indemnification agreements &#8211; general&#32;In connection with issuing securities to investors,&#32;the Firm may enter into contractual arrangements with third parties that require&#32;the Firm to make a payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpretation of tax law. In certain cases, the contract also may include a termination clause, which would allow&#32;the Firm to settle the contract at its fair value in lieu of making a payment under the indemnification clause.&#32;The Firm may also enter into indemnification clauses in connection with the licensing of software to clients (&#8220;software licensees&#8221;) or when it sells a business or assets to a third party (&#8220;third-party purchasers&#8221;), pursuant to which it indemnifies software licensees for claims of liability or damages that may occur subsequent to the licensing of the software, or third-party purchasers for losses they may incur due to actions taken by&#32;the Firm prior to the sale of the business or assets. It is difficult to estimate&#32;the Firm's maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements, since this would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims that may be made against&#32;the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote.&#32;Card charge-backs&#32;Commerce Solutions, Card's merchant services business, is a global leader in payment processing and merchant acquiring.&#32;Under the rules of Visa USA, Inc., and MasterCard International, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is primarily liable for the amount of each processed card sales transaction that is the subject of a dispute between a cardmember and a merchant. If a dispute is resolved in the cardmember's favor, Commerce Solutions will (through the cardmember's &#160;issuing bank) credit or refund the amount to the cardmember and will charge back the transaction to the merchant. If Commerce Solutions is unable to collect the amount from the merchant, Commerce Solutions will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the cardmember. Commerce Solutions mitigates this risk by withholding future settlements, retaining cash reserve accounts or by obtaining other security. However, in the unlikely event that: (1) a merchant ceases operations and is unable to deliver products, services or a refund; (2) Commerce Solutions does not have sufficient collateral from the merchant to provide customer refunds; and (3) Commerce Solutions does not have sufficient financial resources to provide customer refunds, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., would recognize the loss.&#32;Commerce Solutions incurred aggregate losses of&#32;$85 million, $12 million, and $10 million&#32;on $1,063.4 billion, $949.3 billion, and $847.9 billion&#32;of aggregate volume processed for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014, respectively. Incurred losses from merchant charge-backs are charged to other expense, with the offset recorded in a valuation allowance against accrued interest and accounts receivable on the Consolidated balance sheets. The carrying value of the valuation allowance was&#32;$45 million&#32;and $20 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, which&#32;the Firm believes, based on historical experience and the collateral held by Commerce Solutions of&#32;$125 million&#32;and $136 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, respectively, is representative of the payment or performance risk to&#32;the Firm related to charge-backs.&#32;Clearing Services &#8211; Client Credit Risk&#32;The Firm provides clearing services for clients by entering into securities purchases and sales and derivative transactions with CCPs, including ETDs such as futures and options, as well as OTC-cleared derivative contracts. As a clearing member,&#32;the Firm stands behind the performance of its clients, collects cash and securities collateral (margin) as well as any settlement amounts due from or to clients, and remits them to the relevant CCP or client in whole or part. There are two types of margin: variation margin is posted on a daily basis based on the value of clients' derivative contracts and initial margin is posted at inception of a derivative contract, generally on the basis of the potential changes in the variation margin requirement for the contract.&#32;As clearing member,&#32;the Firm is exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients, but is not liable to clients for the performance of the CCPs. Where possible,&#32;the Firm seeks to mitigate its risk to the client through the collection of appropriate amounts of margin at inception and throughout the life of the transactions.&#32;The Firm can also cease providing clearing services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the clearing agreement. In the event of nonperformance by a client,&#32;the Firm would close out the client's positions and access available margin. The CCP would utilize any margin it holds to make itself whole, with any remaining shortfalls required to be paid by&#32;the Firm as a clearing member.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsThe Firm reflects its exposure to nonperformance risk of the client through the recognition of margin payables or receivables to clients and CCPs; the clients' underlying securities or derivative contracts are not reflected in&#32;the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements.&#32;It is difficult to estimate&#32;the Firm's maximum possible exposure through its role as a clearing member, as this would require an assessment of transactions that clients may execute in the future. However, based upon historical experience, and the credit risk mitigants available to&#32;the Firm, management believes it is unlikely that&#32;the Firm will have to make any material payments under these arrangements and the risk of loss is expected to be remote.&#32;For information on the derivatives that&#32;the Firm executes for its own account and records in its Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note&#32;6.Exchange & Clearing House Memberships&#32;The Firm is a member of several securities and derivative exchanges and clearing houses, both in the U.S. and other countries, and it provides clearing services. Membership in some of these organizations requires&#32;the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by the organization as a result of the default of another member. Such obligations vary with different organizations. These obligations may be limited to members who dealt with the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of&#32;the Firm's contribution to the guarantee fund maintained by a clearing house or exchange as part of the resources available to cover any losses in the event of a member default. Alternatively, these obligations may include a pro rata share of the residual losses after applying the guarantee fund. Additionally, certain clearing houses require&#32;the Firm as a member to pay a pro rata share of losses that may result from the clearing house's investment of guarantee fund contributions and initial margin, unrelated to and independent of the default of another member.&#160;Generally a payment would only be required should such losses exceed the resources of the clearing house or exchange that are contractually required to absorb the losses in the first instance. It is difficult to estimate&#32;the Firm's maximum possible exposure under these membership agreements, since this would require an assessment of future claims that may be made against&#32;the Firm that have not yet occurred. However, based on historical experience, management expects the risk of loss to be remote.&#32;&#160;Guarantees of subsidiaries In the normal course of business,&#32;JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;Parent Company&#8221;) may provide counterparties with guarantees of certain of the trading and other obligations of its subsidiaries&#32;on a contract-by-contract basis, as negotiated with&#32;the Firm's counterparties. The obligations of the subsidiaries are included on&#32;the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets or are reflected as off-balance sheet commitments; therefore,&#32;the Parent Company has not recognized a separate liability for these guarantees.&#32;The Firm believes that the occurrence of any event that would trigger payments by&#32;the Parent Company under these guarantees is remote.&#32;The Parent Company has guaranteed certain long-term debt and structured notes of its subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Financial Company LLC (&#8220;JPMFC&#8221;), a 100%-owned finance subsidiary. All securities issued by JPMFC are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent Company. These guarantees, which rank on a parity with the Firm's unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, are not included in the table on page 256&#32;of this Note. For additional information, see Note 21.Note 30 &#8211; Commitments, pledged assets and collateralLease commitments&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes, and for energy-related tolling service agreements. Certain leases contain renewal options or escalation clauses providing for increased rental payments based on maintenance, utility and tax increases, or they require&#32;the Firm to perform restoration work on leased premises. No lease agreement imposes restrictions on&#32;the Firm's ability to pay dividends, engage in debt or equity financing transactions or enter into further lease agreements.&#32;The following table presents required future minimum rental payments under operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after&#32;December&#160;31, 2016.Total rental expense was as follows.&#32;&#160;Pledged assets&#32;The Firm may pledge financial assets that it owns to maintain potential borrowing capacity with central banks and for other purposes, including to secure borrowings and public deposits, and to collateralize repurchase and other securities financing agreements, and to cover customer short sales. Certain of these pledged assets may be sold or repledged or otherwise used by the secured parties and are identified as financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.&#32;At December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had pledged assets of&#32;$441.9 billion&#32;and $385.6 billion, respectively, at Federal Reserve banks and FHLBs. In addition, as of&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had pledged&#32;$53.5 billion&#32;and $50.7 billion, respectively, of financial assets that may not be sold or repledged or otherwise used by the secured parties. Total assets pledged do not include assets of consolidated VIEs; these assets are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. See Note&#32;16 for additional information on assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs. For additional information on&#32;the Firm's securities financing activities and long-term debt, see Note&#32;13 and Note&#32;21, respectively.&#32;The significant components of&#32;the Firm's pledged assets were as follows.&#32;Collateral&#32;&#32;At&#32;December&#160;31, 2016&#32;and 2015, the Firm had accepted financial assets as collateral that it could sell or repledge, deliver or otherwise use with a fair value of approximately&#32;$914.1 billion&#32;and $748.5 billion, respectively. This collateral was generally obtained under resale agreements, securities borrowing agreements, customer margin loans and derivative agreements. Of the collateral received, approximately&#32;$746.6 billion&#32;and $580.9 billion, respectively, were sold, repledged, delivered or otherwise used. Collateral was generally used under repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements or to cover customer short sales and to collateralize deposits and derivative agreements.&#32;Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 31 &#8211; LitigationContingencies As of December&#160;31, 2016, the Firm and its subsidiaries and affiliates are defendants or putative defendants in numerous legal proceedings, including private, civil litigations and regulatory/government investigations. The litigations range from individual actions involving a single plaintiff to class action lawsuits with potentially millions of class members. Investigations involve both formal and informal proceedings, by both governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are at varying stages of adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and involve each of the Firm's lines of business and geographies and a wide variety of claims (including common law tort and contract claims and statutory antitrust, securities and consumer protection claims), some of which present novel legal theories.The Firm believes the estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses, in excess of reserves established, for its legal proceedings is from $0&#32;to approximately $3.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2016. This estimated aggregate range of reasonably possible losses was based upon currently available information for those proceedings in which the Firm believes that an estimate of reasonably possible loss can be made. For certain matters, the Firm does not believe that such an estimate can be made, as of that date. The Firm's estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses involves significant judgment, given the number, variety and varying stages of the proceedings (including the fact that many are in preliminary stages), the existence in many such proceedings of multiple defendants (including the Firm) whose share of liability has yet to be determined, the numerous yet-unresolved issues in many of the proceedings (including issues regarding class certification and the scope of many of the claims) and the attendant uncertainty of the various potential outcomes of such proceedings, including where the Firm has made assumptions concerning future rulings by the court or other adjudicator, or about the behavior or incentives of adverse parties or regulatory authorities, and those assumptions prove to be incorrect. In addition, the outcome of a particular proceeding may be a result which the Firm did not take into account in its estimate because the Firm had deemed the likelihood of that outcome to be remote. Accordingly, the Firm's estimate of the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses will change from time to time, and actual losses may vary significantly.Set forth below are descriptions of the Firm's material legal proceedings.CIO Litigation. The Firm has been sued in a consolidated shareholder class action, and in a consolidated putative class action brought under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (&#8220;ERISA&#8221;), relating to 2012 losses in the synthetic credit portfolio formerly managed by the Firm's Chief Investment Office (&#8220;CIO&#8221;). A settlement of the &#160;shareholder class action, under which the Firm paid $150 million, has received full and final approval from the Court. The putative ERISA class action has been dismissed. That dismissal was affirmed by the appellate court, and a request by the plaintiffs for rehearing by the full appellate court was denied.Foreign Exchange Investigations and Litigation.&#32;The Firm previously reported settlements with certain government authorities relating to its foreign exchange (&#8220;FX&#8221;) sales and trading activities and controls related to those activities. FX-related investigations and inquiries by government authorities, including competition authorities, are ongoing, and the Firm is cooperating with those matters. In May 2015, the Firm pleaded guilty to a single violation of federal antitrust law, and in January 2017, the Firm was sentenced, with judgment entered shortly thereafter. The Department of Labor granted the Firm a temporary one-year waiver, which was effective upon entry of judgment, to allow the Firm and its affiliates to continue to qualify for the Qualified Professional Asset Manager exemption under ERISA. The Firm's application for a lengthier exemption is pending. Separately, in February 2017 the South Africa Competition Commission announced that it had referred its FX investigation of the Firm and other banks to the South Africa Competition Tribunal to commence civil proceedings.&#160;The Firm is also one&#32;of a number of foreign exchange dealers defending a class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by U.S.-based plaintiffs, principally alleging violations of federal antitrust laws based on an alleged conspiracy to manipulate foreign exchange rates (the &#8220;U.S. class action&#8221;). In January 2015, the Firm entered into a settlement agreement in the U.S. class action. Following this settlement, a number of additional putative class actions were filed seeking damages for persons who transacted FX futures and options on futures (the &#8220;exchanged-based actions&#8221;), consumers who purchased foreign currencies at allegedly inflated rates (the &#8220;consumer action&#8221;), participants or beneficiaries of qualified ERISA plans (the &#8220;ERISA actions&#8221;), and purported indirect purchasers of FX instruments (the &#8220;indirect purchaser action&#8221;). Since then, the Firm has entered into a revised settlement agreement to resolve the consolidated U.S. class action, including the exchange-based actions, and that agreement has been preliminarily approved by the Court. The District Court has dismissed one&#32;of the ERISA actions, and the plaintiffs have filed an appeal. The consumer action, a second ERISA action and the indirect purchaser action remain pending in the District Court.In September 2015, two&#32;class actions were filed in Canada against the Firm as well as a number of other FX dealers, principally for alleged violations of the Canadian Competition Act based on an alleged conspiracy to fix the prices of currency purchased in the FX market. The first action was filed in the province of Ontario, and seeks to represent all persons in Canada who transacted any FX instrument. The second action was filed in the province of Quebec, and seeks authorization to represent only those persons in Quebec who engaged in FX transactions. In late 2016, the Firm settled the Canadian class actions; those settlements are subject to Court approval.General Motors Litigation. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. participated in, and was the Administrative Agent on behalf of a syndicate of lenders on, a $1.5 billion&#32;syndicated Term Loan facility (&#8220;Term Loan&#8221;) for General Motors Corporation (&#8220;GM&#8221;).&#160;In July 2009, in connection with the GM bankruptcy proceedings, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Motors Liquidation Company (&#8220;Creditors Committee&#8221;) filed a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its individual capacity and as Administrative Agent for other lenders on the Term Loan, seeking to hold the underlying lien invalid based on the filing of a UCC-3 termination statement relating to the Term Loan. In January 2015, following several court proceedings, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the Bankruptcy Court's dismissal of the Creditors Committee's claim and remanded the case to the Bankruptcy Court with instructions to enter partial summary judgment for the Creditors Committee as to the termination statement. The proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court continue with respect to, among other things, additional defenses asserted by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the value of additional collateral on the Term Loan that was unaffected by the filing of the termination statement at issue. In addition, certain Term Loan lenders filed cross-claims against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. in the Bankruptcy Court seeking indemnification and asserting various claims.Interchange Litigation. A group of merchants and retail associations filed a series of class action complaints alleging that Visa and MasterCard, as well as certain banks, conspired to set the price of credit and debit card interchange fees, enacted respective rules in violation of antitrust laws, and engaged in tying/bundling and exclusive dealing. The parties entered into an agreement to settle the cases for a cash payment of $6.1 billion&#32;to the class plaintiffs (of which the Firm's share is approximately 20%) and an amount equal to ten&#32;basis points of credit card interchange for a period of eight&#32;months to be measured from a date within 60 days&#32;of the end of the opt-out period. The agreement also provided for modifications to each credit card network's rules, including those that prohibit surcharging credit card transactions. In December 2013, the District Court granted final approval of the settlement. A number of merchants appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which, in June 2016, vacated the District Court's certification of the class action and reversed the approval of the class settlement. The case has been remanded to the District Court for further proceedings consistent with the appellate decision. Both the plaintiffs and the defendants have filed petitions seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court of the Second Circuit's decision.&#160;In addition, certain merchants have filed individual actions against Visa and MasterCard, as well as against the Firm and other banks, and those actions are proceeding.Investment Management Litigation. The Firm is defending two&#32;pending cases that are coordinated for pre-trial and trial purposes, alleging that investment portfolios managed by J.P. Morgan Investment Management (&#8220;JPMIM&#8221;) were inappropriately invested in securities backed by residential real estate collateral. Plaintiffs Assured Guaranty (U.K.) and Ambac Assurance UK Limited claim that JPMIM is liable for total losses of more than $1 billion&#32;in market value of these securities. Discovery has been completed. In January 2016, plaintiffs filed a joint partial motion for summary judgment in the coordinated actions. In February 2017, the Court ruled in plaintiffs' favor as to the interpretation of an applicable statutory provision and the rejection of a certain defense, but otherwise preserved for trial the determination of whether JPMIM breached the governing contract and is liable for plaintiffs' claimed losses under the standard of gross negligence. The trial is scheduled to begin in March 2017.Lehman Brothers Bankruptcy Proceedings. In January 2016, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (&#8220;LBHI&#8221;) and several of LBHI's subsidiaries reached an agreement, approved by the Bankruptcy Court, resolving several disputes between the parties. The January 2016 settlement did not resolve the following remaining matters:&#160;In the Bankruptcy Court proceedings, LBHI and its Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors filed an objection to the claims asserted by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. against LBHI with respect to clearing advances made to Lehman Brothers Inc., principally on the grounds that the Firm had not conducted the sale of the securities collateral held for its claims in a commercially reasonable manner.&#160;LBHI also brought two&#32;claims objections relating to securities lending claims and a group of other smaller claims.&#160;In January 2017, the Firm entered into an agreement to settle all of these remaining claims, and this settlement has been approved by the Bankruptcy Court.LIBOR and Other Benchmark Rate Investigations and Litigation. JPMorgan Chase has received subpoenas and requests for documents and, in some cases, interviews, from federal and state agencies and entities, including the U.S. Department of Justice (&#8220;DOJ&#8221;), the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) and various state attorneys general, as well as the European Commission (&#8220;EC&#8221;), the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;), the Canadian Competition Bureau, the Swiss Competition Commission (&#8220;ComCo&#8221;) and other regulatory authorities and banking associations around the world relating primarily to the process by which interest rates were submitted to the British Bankers Association (&#8220;BBA&#8221;) in connection with the setting of the BBA's London Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;LIBOR&#8221;) for various currencies, principally in 2007 and 2008. Some of the inquiries also relate to similar processes by which information on rates is submitted to the European Notes to consolidated financial statementsBanking Federation (&#8220;EBF&#8221;) in connection with the setting of the EBF's Euro Interbank Offered Rates (&#8220;EURIBOR&#8221;) and to the Japanese Bankers' Association for the setting of Tokyo Interbank Offered Rates (&#8220;TIBOR&#8221;), as well as processes for the setting of U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates and other reference rates in various parts of the world during similar time periods. The Firm is responding to and continuing to cooperate with these inquiries. As previously reported, the Firm has resolved EC inquiries relating to Yen LIBOR and Swiss Franc LIBOR. In December 2016, the Firm resolved ComCo inquiries relating to these same rates. ComCo's investigation relating to EURIBOR, to which the Firm and other banks are subject, continues. In December 2016, the EC issued a decision against the Firm and other banks finding an infringement of European antitrust rules relating to EURIBOR. The Firm has filed an appeal with the European General Court. In June 2016, the DOJ informed the Firm that the DOJ had closed its inquiry into LIBOR and other benchmark rates with respect to the Firm without taking action. Other inquiries have been discontinued without any action against JPMorgan Chase, including by the SEC, FCA and the Canadian Competition Bureau.In addition, the Firm has been named as a defendant along with other banks in a series of individual and putative class actions filed in various United States District Courts. These actions have been filed, or consolidated for pre-trial purposes, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In these actions, plaintiffs make varying allegations that in various periods, starting in 2000 or later, defendants either individually or collectively manipulated the U.S. dollar LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR, EURIBOR, Singapore Interbank Offered Rate (&#8220;SIBOR&#8221;), Singapore Swap Offer Rate (&#8220;SOR&#8221;) and/or the Bank Bill Swap Reference Rate (&#8220;BBSW&#8221;) by submitting rates that were artificially low or high. Plaintiffs allege that they transacted in loans, derivatives or other financial instruments whose values are affected by changes in U.S. dollar LIBOR, Yen LIBOR, Swiss franc LIBOR, Euroyen TIBOR, EURIBOR, SIBOR, SOR or BBSW and assert a variety of claims including antitrust claims seeking treble damages. These matters are in various stages of litigation.In the U.S. dollar LIBOR-related actions, the District Court dismissed certain claims, including the antitrust claims, and permitted other claims under the Commodity Exchange Act and common law to proceed. In May 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated the dismissal of the antitrust claims and remanded the case to the District Court to consider, among other things, whether the plaintiffs have standing to assert antitrust claims. In July 2016, JPMorgan Chase and other defendants again moved in the District Court to dismiss the antitrust claims, and in December 2016, the District Court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion, finding that certain plaintiffs lacked standing to assert antitrust claims. Separately, in October 2016, JPMorgan Chase and other defendants filed a petition to the U.S. Supreme Court seeking review of the Second Circuit's decision that vacated &#160;the dismissal of plaintiffs' antitrust claims. That petition was denied.The Firm is one&#32;of the defendants in a number of putative class actions alleging that defendant banks and ICAP conspired to manipulate the U.S. dollar ISDAFIX rates. Plaintiffs primarily assert claims under the federal antitrust laws and Commodity Exchange Act. In April 2016, the Firm settled the ISDAFIX litigation, along with certain other banks. Those settlements have been preliminarily approved by the Court.Madoff Litigation. A putative class action was filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey by investors who were net winners (i.e., Madoff customers who had taken more money out of their accounts than had been invested) in Madoff's Ponzi scheme and were not included in a prior class action settlement. These plaintiffs allege violations of the federal securities law, as well as other state and federal claims. A similar action was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, although it was not styled as a class action, and included claims pursuant to Florida statutes. The Florida court granted the Firm's motion to dismiss the case, and in August 2016, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirmed the dismissal. The plaintiffs have filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. In addition, the same plaintiffs have re-filed their dismissed state claims in Florida state court, where the Firm's motion to dismiss is pending. The New Jersey court granted a transfer motion to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which granted the Firm's motion to dismiss, and the plaintiffs have filed an appeal of that dismissal.Mortgage-Backed Securities and Repurchase Litigation and Related Regulatory Investigations. The Firm and affiliates (together, &#8220;JPMC&#8221;), Bear Stearns and affiliates (together, &#8220;Bear Stearns&#8221;) and certain Washington Mutual affiliates (together, &#8220;Washington Mutual&#8221;) have been named as defendants in a number of cases in their various roles in offerings of mortgage-backed securities (&#8220;MBS&#8221;). Following the settlements referred to below, the remaining civil cases include one&#32;investor action, one&#32;action by a monoline insurer relating to Bear Stearns' role solely as underwriter, and actions for repurchase of mortgage loans. The Firm and certain of its current and former officers and Board members have also been sued in shareholder derivative actions relating to the Firm's MBS activities, and one&#32;action remains pending.Issuer Litigation &#8211; Individual Purchaser Actions. With the exception of one&#32;remaining action, the Firm has settled all of the individual actions brought against JPMC, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual as MBS issuers (and, in some cases, also as underwriters of their own MBS offerings).Underwriter Actions. The Firm is defending one&#32;remaining action by a monoline insurer relating to Bear Stearns' role solely as underwriter for another issuer's MBS offering. The issuer is defunct.Repurchase Litigation. The Firm is defending a number of actions brought by trustees, securities administrators and/or master servicers of various MBS trusts on behalf of purchasers of securities issued by those trusts. These cases generally allege breaches of various representations and warranties regarding securitized loans and seek repurchase of those loans or equivalent monetary relief, as well as indemnification of attorneys' fees and costs and other remedies. The Firm has reached a settlement with Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, acting as trustee for various MBS trusts, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the &#8220;FDIC&#8221;) in connection with the litigation related to a significant number of MBS issued by Washington Mutual; that case is described in the Washington Mutual Litigations section below. Other repurchase actions, each specific to one&#32;or more MBS transactions issued by JPMC and/or Bear Stearns, are in various stages of litigation.In addition, the Firm and a group of 21&#32;institutional MBS investors made a binding offer to the trustees of MBS issued by JPMC and Bear Stearns providing for the payment of $4.5 billion&#32;and the implementation of certain servicing changes by JPMC, to resolve all repurchase and servicing claims that have been asserted or could have been asserted with respect to 330&#32;MBS trusts created between 2005 and 2008. The offer does not resolve claims relating to Washington Mutual MBS. The trustees (or separate and successor trustees) for this group of 330&#32;trusts have accepted the settlement for 319&#32;trusts in whole or in part and excluded from the settlement 16&#32;trusts in whole or in part. The trustees' acceptance has received final approval from the court.Additional actions have been filed against third-party trustees that relate to loan repurchase and servicing claims involving trusts sponsored by JPMC, Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual.The Firm has entered into agreements with a number of MBS trustees or entities that purchased MBS that toll applicable statute of limitations periods with respect to their claims, and has settled, and in the future may settle, tolled claims. There is no assurance that the Firm will not be named as a defendant in additional MBS-related litigation.Derivative Actions. A shareholder derivative action against the Firm, as nominal defendant, and certain of its current and former officers and members of its Board of Directors relating to the Firm's MBS activities is pending in California federal court. Defendants have filed a motion to dismiss the action.Government Enforcement Investigations and Litigation. The Firm is responding to an ongoing investigation being conducted by the DOJ's Criminal Division and two&#32;United States Attorney's Offices relating to MBS offerings securitized and sold by the Firm and its subsidiaries. Mortgage-Related Investigations and Litigation. In January 2017, a Consent Judgment was entered by the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York &#160;resolving allegations by the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York that the Firm violated the Fair Housing Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act by giving pricing discretion to independent mortgage brokers in its wholesale lending distribution channel which, according to the government's model, may have charged higher fees and interest rates to African-American and Hispanic borrowers than non-Hispanic White borrowers during the period between 2006 and 2009. The Firm denied liability but agreed to pay a total of approximately $55 million&#32;to resolve this matter. In addition, three&#32;municipalities have commenced litigation against the Firm alleging violations of an unfair competition law or the Fair Housing Act. The municipalities seek, among other things, civil penalties for the unfair competition claim, and, for the Fair Housing Act claims, damages resulting from lost tax revenue and increased municipal costs associated with foreclosed properties. The municipal actions are stayed pending an appeal by the City of Los Angeles to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, as well as the United States Supreme Court's review of decisions of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit which held, among other things, that the City of Miami has standing under the Fair Housing Act to pursue similar claims against other banks. Municipal Derivatives Litigation. Several civil actions were commenced in New York and Alabama courts against the Firm relating to certain Jefferson County, Alabama (the &#8220;County&#8221;) warrant underwritings and swap transactions. The claims in the civil actions generally alleged that the Firm made payments to certain third parties in exchange for being chosen to underwrite more than $3 billion&#32;in warrants issued by the County and to act as the counterparty for certain swaps executed by the County. The County filed for bankruptcy in November 2011. In June 2013, the County filed a Chapter 9 Plan of Adjustment, as amended (the &#8220;Plan of Adjustment&#8221;), which provided that all the above-described actions against the Firm would be released and dismissed with prejudice. In November 2013, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Plan of Adjustment, and in December 2013, certain sewer rate payers filed an appeal challenging the confirmation of the Plan of Adjustment. All conditions to the Plan of Adjustment's effectiveness, including the dismissal of the actions against the Firm, were satisfied or waived and the transactions contemplated by the Plan of Adjustment occurred in December 2013. Accordingly, all the above-described actions against the Firm have been dismissed pursuant to the terms of the Plan of Adjustment. The appeal of the Bankruptcy Court's order confirming the Plan of Adjustment remains pending.Petters Bankruptcy and Related Matters. JPMorgan Chase and certain of its affiliates, including One Equity Partners (&#8220;OEP&#8221;), have been named as defendants in several actions filed in connection with the receivership and bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to Thomas J. Petters and certain affiliated entities (collectively, &#8220;Petters&#8221;) and the Polaroid Notes to consolidated financial statementsCorporation. The principal actions against JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates have been brought by a court-appointed receiver for Petters and the trustees in bankruptcy proceedings for three&#32;Petters entities. These actions generally seek to avoid certain putative transfers in connection with (i) the 2005 acquisition by Petters of Polaroid, which at the time was majority-owned by OEP; (ii) two&#32;credit facilities that JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions entered into with Polaroid; and (iii) a credit line and investment accounts held by Petters. In January 2017, the Court denied the defendants' motion to dismiss an amended complaint filed by the plaintiffs.Proprietary Products Investigations and Litigation.&#32;In December 2015, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC agreed to a settlement with the SEC, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. agreed to a settlement with the CFTC, regarding disclosures to clients concerning conflicts associated with the Firm's sale and use of proprietary products, such as J.P. Morgan mutual funds, in the Firm's CCB and AWM wealth management businesses, and the U.S. Private Bank's disclosures concerning the use of hedge funds that pay placement agent fees to JPMorgan Chase broker-dealer affiliates. The Firm settled with an additional government authority in July 2016, and continues to cooperate with inquiries from other government authorities concerning disclosure of conflicts associated with the Firm's sale and use of proprietary products. A putative class action, which was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois on behalf of financial advisory clients from 2007 to the present whose funds were invested in proprietary funds and who were charged investment management fees, was dismissed by the Court. The dismissal has been affirmed on appeal.Referral Hiring Practices Investigations.&#32;In November 2016, the Firm entered into settlements with DOJ, the SEC and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the &#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) to resolve those agencies' respective investigations relating to a former hiring program for candidates referred by clients, potential clients and government officials in the Asia Pacific region. Other related investigations are ongoing, and the Firm continues to cooperate with these investigations.Washington Mutual Litigations. Proceedings related to Washington Mutual's failure are pending before the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and include a lawsuit brought by Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, initially against the FDIC and amended to include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as a defendant, asserting an estimated $6 billion&#32;to $10 billion&#32;in damages based upon alleged breaches of certain representations and warranties given by certain Washington Mutual affiliates in connection with mortgage securitization agreements. The case includes assertions that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. may have assumed liabilities for the alleged breaches of representations and warranties in the mortgage securitization agreements. In June 2015, the court ruled in &#160;favor of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. on the question of whether the Firm or the FDIC bears responsibility for Washington Mutual Bank's repurchase obligations, holding that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. assumed only those liabilities that were reflected on Washington Mutual Bank's financial accounting records as of September 25, 2008, and only up to the amount of the book value reflected therein. The FDIC has appealed that ruling.JPMorgan Chase has also filed complaints in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDIC, in its corporate capacity as well as in its capacity as receiver for Washington Mutual Bank, asserting multiple claims for indemnification under the terms of the Purchase & Assumption Agreement between JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the FDIC relating to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s purchase of substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities of Washington Mutual Bank (the &#8220;Purchase & Assumption Agreement&#8221;).The Firm, Deutsche Bank National Trust Company and the FDIC have signed a settlement agreement to resolve (i) pending litigation brought by Deutsche Bank National Trust Company against the FDIC and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as defendants, relating to alleged breaches of certain representations and warranties given by certain Washington Mutual affiliates in connection with mortgage securitization agreements and (ii) JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s outstanding indemnification claims pursuant to the terms of the Purchase & Assumption Agreement. The settlement is subject to certain judicial approval procedures, and both matters are stayed pending approval of the settlement.Wendel. Since 2012, the French criminal authorities have been investigating a series of transactions entered into by senior managers of Wendel Investissement (&#8220;Wendel&#8221;) during the period from 2004 through 2007 to restructure their shareholdings in Wendel. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Paris branch provided financing for the transactions to a number of managers of Wendel in 2007. JPMorgan Chase has cooperated with the investigation. The investigating judges issued an ordonnance de renvoi&#32;on November 30, 2016, referring JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to the French tribunal correctionnel&#32;for alleged complicity in tax fraud. No date for trial has been set by the court. The Firm has been successful in legal challenges made to the Court of Cassation, France's highest court, which have been referred back to and remain pending before the Paris Court of Appeal. In addition, civil proceedings have been commenced against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. by a number of the managers. The claims are separate, involve different allegations and are at various stages of proceedings.* * *In addition to the various legal proceedings discussed above, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries are named as defendants or are otherwise involved in a substantial number of other legal proceedings. The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and it intends to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. Additional legal proceedings may be initiated from time to time in the future.The Firm has established reserves for several hundred of its currently outstanding legal proceedings. In accordance with the provisions of U.S. GAAP for contingencies, the Firm accrues for a litigation-related liability when it is probable that such a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Firm evaluates its outstanding legal proceedings each quarter to assess its litigation reserves, and makes adjustments in such reserves, upwards or downward, as appropriate, based on management's best judgment after consultation with counsel. During the years ended December&#160;31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Firm's legal expense was a benefit of $(317) million&#32;and an expense of $3.0 billion&#32;and $2.9 billion, respectively. There is no assurance that the Firm's litigation reserves will not need to be adjusted in the future. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal proceedings, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages, or where the matters present novel legal theories, involve a large number of parties or are in early stages of discovery, the Firm cannot state with confidence what will be the eventual outcomes of the currently pending matters, the timing of their ultimate resolution or the eventual losses, fines, penalties or impact related to those matters. JPMorgan Chase believes, based upon its current knowledge, after consultation with counsel and after taking into account its current litigation reserves, that the legal proceedings currently pending against it should not have a material adverse effect on the Firm's consolidated financial condition. The Firm notes, however, that in light of the uncertainties involved in such proceedings, there is no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not significantly exceed the reserves it has currently accrued or that a matter will not have material reputational consequences. As a result, the outcome of a particular matter may be material to JPMorgan Chase's operating results for a particular period, depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and the level of JPMorgan Chase's income for that period. Notes to consolidated financial statementsNote 32 &#8211; International operationsThe following table presents income statement- and balance sheet-related information for JPMorgan Chase by major international geographic area. The Firm defines international activities for purposes of this footnote presentation as business transactions that involve clients residing outside of the U.S., and the information presented below is based predominantly on the domicile of the client, the location from which the client relationship is managed, or the location of the trading desk. However, many of the Firm's U.S. operations serve international businesses.&#160;As the Firm's operations are highly integrated, estimates and subjective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between U.S. and international operations. These estimates and assumptions are consistent with the allocations used for the Firm's segment reporting as set forth in Note 33.The Firm's long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered by management to be significant in relation to total assets. The majority of the Firm's long-lived assets are located in the U.S.Note 33 &#8211; Business segmentsThe Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four&#32;major reportable business segments &#8211; Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset & Wealth Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment. The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan Chase's business segments, see Segment results of this footnote.The following is a description of each of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases.Consumer & Community Banking CCB offers services to consumers and businesses through bank branches, ATMs, online, mobile and telephone banking. CCB is organized into Consumer & Business Banking (including Consumer Banking/Chase Wealth Management and Business Banking), Mortgage Banking (including Mortgage Production, Mortgage Servicing and Real Estate Portfolios) and Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto. Consumer & Business Banking offers deposit and investment products and services to consumers, and lending, deposit, and cash management and payment solutions to small businesses. Mortgage Banking includes mortgage origination and servicing activities, as well as portfolios consisting&#32;of residential mortgages and home equity loans. Card, Commerce Solutions & Auto issues credit cards to consumers and small businesses, offers payment processing services to merchants, originates and services auto loans and leases, and services student loans.&#32;Corporate & Investment BankThe CIB, which consists of Banking and Markets & Investor Services, offers a broad suite of investment banking, market-making, prime brokerage, and treasury and securities products and services to a global client base of corporations, investors, financial institutions, government and municipal entities.&#160;Banking offers a full range of investment banking products and services in all major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-raising in equity and debt markets, as well as loan origination and syndication. Banking also includes Treasury Services, which provides transaction services, consisting of cash management and liquidity solutions. Markets & Investor Services is a global market-&#160;maker in cash securities and derivative instruments, and also offers sophisticated risk management solutions, prime brokerage, and research.&#160;Markets & Investor Services also includes Securities Services, a leading global custodian that provides custody, fund accounting and administration, and securities lending products principally for asset managers, insurance companies and public and private investment funds.&#32;Commercial BankingCB delivers extensive industry knowledge, local expertise and dedicated service to U.S. and U.S. multinational clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and nonprofit entities with annual revenue generally ranging from&#32;$20 million&#32;to $2 billion. In addition, CB provides financing to real estate investors and owners. Partnering with the Firm's other businesses, CB provides comprehensive financial solutions, including lending, treasury services, investment banking and asset management to meet its clients' domestic and international financial needs.&#32;Asset & Wealth ManagementAWM, with client assets of&#32;$2.5 trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth management. AWM clients include institutions, high-net-worth individuals and retail investors in many major markets throughout the world. AWM offers investment management across most major asset classes including equities, fixed income, alternatives and money market funds. AWM also offers multi-asset investment management, providing solutions for a broad range of clients' investment needs. For Wealth Management clients, AWM also provides retirement products and services, brokerage and banking services, including trusts and estates, loans, mortgages and deposits. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios.&#32;CorporateThe Corporate segment consists of Treasury and CIO and Other Corporate, which includes corporate staff units and expense that is centrally managed. Treasury and CIO are predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks, as well as executing the Firm's capital plan. The major Other Corporate units include Real Estate, Enterprise Technology, Legal, Compliance, Finance, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Risk Management, Oversight & Control, Corporate Responsibility and various Other Corporate groups.Notes to consolidated financial statementsSegment results The following tables provide a summary of the Firm's segment results as of or for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014&#32;on a managed basis.&#32;The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue (noninterest revenue and net interest income) for each of the reportable business segments on a FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from &#160;investments receiving tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis comparable to taxable investments and securities. This allows management to assess the comparability of revenue from year-to-year arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense/(benefit). Segment results and reconciliationNote 34 &#8211; Parent Company The following tables present Parent Company-only financial statements.&#160;Supplementary information Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)Supplementary informationNote: Effective January 1, 2016, the Firm adopted new accounting guidance related to (1) the recognition and measurement of DVA on financial liabilities where the fair value option has been elected, and (2) the accounting for employee stock-based incentive payments. For additional information, see Accounting and Reporting Developments on pages 135&#8211;137&#32;and Notes 3, 4, and 25.Distribution of assets, liabilities and stockholders' equity; interest rates and interest differentialsConsolidated average balance sheet, interest and ratesProvided below is a summary of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated average balances, interest rates and interest differentials on a taxable-equivalent basis for the years 2014&#32;through 2016. Income computed on a taxable-equivalent basis is the income reported in the Consolidated &#160;statements of income, adjusted to present interest income and average rates earned on assets exempt from income taxes (primarily federal taxes) on a basis comparable with other taxable investments. The incremental tax rate used for calculating the taxable-equivalent adjustment was approximately 38%&#32;in 2016, 2015&#32;and 2014.Within the Consolidated average balance sheets, interest and rates summary, the principal amounts of nonaccrual loans have been included in the average loan balances used to determine the average interest rate earned on loans. For additional information on nonaccrual loans, including interest accrued, see Note 14.Interest rates and interest differential analysis of net interest income &#8211; U.S. and non-U.S.Presented below is a summary of interest rates and interest differentials segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. operations for the years 2014&#32;through 2016. The segregation of U.S. and non-U.S. components is based on&#160;the location of the office recording the transaction. Intercompany funding generally consists of dollar-denominated deposits originated in various locations that are centrally managed by Treasury and CIO.For further information, see the &#8220;Net interest income&#8221; discussion in Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 40&#8211;42.Changes in net interest income, volume and rate analysisThe table below presents an analysis of the effect on net interest income from volume and rate changes for the periods 2016&#32;versus 2015&#32;and 2015&#32;versus 2014. In this analysis, when the change cannot be isolated to either volume or rate, it has been allocated to volume.Glossary of Terms and Acronyms2016 Annual Report or 2016 Form 10-K: Annual report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2016, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.&#32;ABS: Asset-backed securities&#32;Active foreclosures: Loans referred to foreclosure where formal foreclosure proceedings are ongoing. Includes both judicial and non-judicial states.&#32;AFS: Available-for-sale&#32;ALCO: Asset Liability CommitteeAllowance for loan losses to total loans: Represents period-end allowance for loan losses divided by retained loans.Alternative assets: The following types of assets constitute alternative investments &#8211; hedge funds, currency, real estate, private equity and other investment funds designed to focus on nontraditional strategies.AWM: Asset & Wealth ManagementAOCI: Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)&#32;ARM: Adjustable rate mortgage(s)&#32;AUC: Assets under custodyAUM: &#8220;Assets under management&#8221;:&#32;Represent assets managed by AWM on behalf of its Private Banking, Institutional and Retail clients. Includes &#8220;Committed capital not Called,&#8221; on which AWM earns fees.Auto loan and lease origination volume: Dollar amount of auto loans and leases originated.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs: Represents the interest of third-party holders of debt, equity securities, or other obligations, issued by VIEs that&#32;JPMorgan Chase consolidates.&#32;Benefit obligation: Refers to the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for OPEB plans.&#32;BHC: Bank holding company&#32;Card Services&#32;includes the Credit Card and Commerce Solutions businesses.CB: Commercial BankingCBB: Consumer & Business BankingCCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and ReviewCCB: Consumer & Community BankingCCO:&#32;Chief Compliance OfficerCCP: &#8220;Central counterparty&#8221;&#32;is a clearing house that interposes itself between counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets, becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the future performance of open contracts. A CCP becomes counterparty to trades with market participants &#160;through novation, an open offer system, or another legally binding arrangement.&#32;CDS: Credit default swaps&#32;CEO: Chief Executive Officer&#32;CET1 Capital: Common Equity Tier 1 Capital&#32;CFTC:&#32;Commodity Futures Trading Commission&#32;CFO: Chief Financial Officer&#32;Chase Bank USA, N.A.: Chase Bank USA, National AssociationCIB: Corporate & Investment BankCIO: Chief Investment Office&#32;Client assets:&#32;Represent assets under management as well as custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts.Client deposits and other third-party liabilities:&#32;Deposits, as well as deposits that are swept to on-balance sheet liabilities (e.g., commercial paper, federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements) as part of client cash management programs. During the third quarter 2015 the Firm completed the discontinuation of its commercial paper customer sweep cash management program.CLO:&#32;Collateralized loan obligations&#32;CLTV: Combined loan-to-value&#32;Collateral-dependent: A loan is considered to be collateral-dependent when repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the underlying collateral, rather than by cash flows from the borrower's operations, income or other resources.&#32;Commerce Solutions is&#32;a business that primarily processes transactions for merchants.Commercial Card: provides a wide range of payment services to corporate and public sector clients worldwide through the commercial card products. Services include procurement, corporate travel and entertainment, expense management services, and business-to-business payment solutions.COO: Chief Operating OfficerCore loans:&#32;Represents loans considered central to the Firm's ongoing businesses; core loans exclude loans classified as trading assets, runoff portfolios, discontinued portfolios and portfolios the Firm has an intent to exit.Credit cycle: A period of time over which credit quality improves, deteriorates and then improves again (or vice versa). The duration of a credit cycle can vary from a couple of years to several years.Credit derivatives:&#32;Financial instruments whose value is derived from the credit risk associated with the debt of a third-party issuer (the reference entity) which allow one&#32;party (the protection purchaser) to transfer that risk to Glossary of Terms and Acronymsanother party (the protection seller). Upon the occurrence of a credit event by the reference entity, which may include, among other events, the bankruptcy or failure to pay its obligations, or certain restructurings of the debt of the reference entity, neither party has recourse to the reference entity. The protection purchaser has recourse to the protection seller for the difference between the face value of the CDS contract and the fair value at the time of settling the credit derivative contract. The determination as to whether a credit event has occurred is generally made by the relevant International Swaps and Derivatives Association (&#8220;ISDA&#8221;) Determinations Committee.&#32;Criticized: Criticized loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables that are classified as special mention, substandard and doubtful categories for regulatory purposes and are generally consistent with a rating of CCC+/Caa1 and below, as defined by S&P and Moody's.&#32;CRO: Chief Risk Officer&#32;CTC: CIO, Treasury and CorporateCVA: Credit valuation adjustments&#32;Debit and credit card sales volume: Dollar amount of card member purchases, net of returns.Deposit margin/deposit spread: Represents net interest income expressed as a percentage of average deposits.Distributed denial-of-service attack:&#32;The use of a large number of remote computer systems to electronically send a high volume of traffic to a target website to create a service outage at the target. This is a form of cyberattack.DFAST:&#32;Dodd-Frank Act Stress TestDodd-Frank Act:&#32;Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act&#32;DOJ: U.S. Department of Justice&#32;DOL: U.S.&#32;Department of Labor&#32;DRPC: Directors' Risk Policy Committee&#32;DVA: Debit valuation adjustment&#32;E&P: Exploration & Production EC: European Commission Eligible LTD: Long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteriaEmbedded derivatives: are implicit or explicit terms or features of a financial instrument that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value of the instrument in a manner similar to a derivative. An instrument containing such terms or features is referred to as a &#8220;hybrid.&#8221; The component of the hybrid that is the non-derivative instrument is referred to as the &#8220;host.&#8221; For example, callable debt is a hybrid instrument that contains a plain vanilla debt instrument (i.e., the host) and an embedded option that allows the issuer to redeem the debt issue at a specified date for a &#160;specified amount (i.e., the embedded derivative). However, a floating rate instrument is not a hybrid composed of a fixed-rate instrument and an interest rate swap.&#32;ERISA:&#32;Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974&#32;EPS:&#32;Earnings per shareETD: &#8220;Exchange-traded derivatives&#8221;: Derivative contracts that are executed on an exchange and settled via a central clearing house.&#32;EU: European Union&#32;Fannie Mae:&#32;Federal National Mortgage Association&#32;FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board&#32;FCA:&#32;Financial Conduct Authority&#32;FCC:&#32;Firmwide Control CommitteeFDIA:&#32;Federal Depository Insurance Act&#32;FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation&#32;Federal Reserve:&#32;The Board of the Governors of the Federal Reserve System&#32;Fee share:&#32;Proportion of fee revenue based on estimates of investment banking fees generated across the industry from investment banking transactions in M&A, equity and debt underwriting, and loan syndications. Source: Dealogic, a third-party provider of investment banking fee competitive analysis and volume-based league tables for the above noted industry products.FFELP: Federal Family Education Loan Program&#32;FFIEC:&#32;Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council&#32;FHA: Federal Housing Administration&#32;FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank&#32;FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical models by Fair Isaac Corporation utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus.&#32;Firm:&#32;JPMorgan Chase & Co.Forward points: Represents the interest rate differential between two currencies, which is either added to or subtracted from the current exchange rate (i.e., &#8220;spot rate&#8221;) to determine the forward exchange rate.FRC: Firmwide Risk CommitteeFree standing derivatives: a derivative contract entered into either separate and apart from any of the Firms other financial instruments or equity transactions. Or, in conjunction with some other transaction and is legally detachable and separately exercisable.FSB: Financial Stability BoardFTE: Fully taxable equivalentFVA: Funding valuation adjustment&#32;Glossary of Terms and AcronymsFX: Foreign exchange&#32;G7: Group of Seven nations: Countries in the G7 are Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the U.K. and the U.S.&#32;G7 government bonds: Bonds issued by the government of one of the G7 nations.&#32;Ginnie Mae:&#32;Government National Mortgage Association &#32;GSE: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac&#32;GSIB: Global systemically important banks&#32;HAMP: Home affordable modification program&#32;Headcount-related expense: Includes salary and benefits (excluding performance-based incentives), and other noncompensation costs related to employees.HELOAN: Home equity loan&#32;HELOC: Home equity line of credit&#32;Home equity &#8211; senior lien: Represents loans and commitments where&#32;JPMorgan Chase holds the first security interest on the property.&#32;Home equity &#8211; junior lien: Represents loans and commitments where&#32;JPMorgan Chase&#32;holds a security interest that is subordinate in rank to other liens.&#32;Households: A household is a collection of individuals or entities aggregated together by name, address, tax identifier and phone. Reported on a one-month lag.HQLA: High quality liquid assetsHTM: Held-to-maturity&#32;ICAAP:&#32;Internal capital adequacy assessment processIDI: Insured depository institutionsIHC: JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC, an intermediate holding companyImpaired loan: Impaired loans are loans measured at amortized cost, for which it is probable that&#32;the Firm will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and interest, according to the contractual terms of the agreement. Impaired loans include the following:&#32;Interchange income: A fee paid to a credit card issuer in the clearing and settlement of a sales or cash advance transaction.&#32;Investment-grade: An indication of credit quality based on&#32;JPMorgan Chase's internal risk assessment system. &#8220;Investment grade&#8221; generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a &#8220;BBB-&#8221;/&#8220;Baa3&#8221; or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.&#32;ISDA: International Swaps and Derivatives Association&#32;&#160;JPMorgan Chase:&#32;JPMorgan Chase & Co.&#32;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.:&#32;JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association&#32;JPMorgan Clearing:&#32;J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp.JPMorgan Securities:&#32;J.P. Morgan Securities LLCLoan-equivalent:&#32;Represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, to become drawn prior to an event of a default by an obligor.LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio&#32;LDA:&#32;Loss Distribution ApproachLGD: Loss given default&#32;LIBOR:&#32;London Interbank Offered Rate &#32;LLC: Limited Liability Company&#32;LOB: Line of businessLoss emergence period: Represents the time period between the date at which the loss is estimated to have been incurred and the realization of that loss.LTIP: Long-term incentive plan&#32;LTV: &#8220;Loan-to-value&#8221;: For residential real estate loans, the relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral (i.e., residential real estate) securing the loan.&#32;Origination date LTV ratio&#32;The LTV ratio at the origination date of the loan. Origination date LTV ratios are calculated based on the actual appraised values of collateral (i.e., loan-level data) at the origination date.&#32;Current estimated LTV ratio&#32;An estimate of the LTV as of a certain date. The current estimated LTV ratios are calculated using estimated collateral values derived from a nationally recognized home price index measured at the metropolitan statistical area (&#8220;MSA&#8221;) level. These MSA-level home price indices consist of actual data to the extent available and forecasted data where actual data is not available. As a result, the estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting LTV ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.&#32;Combined LTV ratio&#32;The LTV ratio considering all available lien positions, as well as unused lines, related to the property. Combined LTV ratios are used for junior lien home equity products.&#32;Managed basis: A non-GAAP presentation of financial results that includes reclassifications to present revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses this non- GAAP financial measure at the segment level, because it Glossary of Terms and Acronymsbelieves this provides information to enable investors to understand the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitates a comparison of the business segment with the performance of competitors.Master netting agreement: An agreement between two counterparties who have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts, as well as cash collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one contract.&#32;MBS: Mortgage-backed securities &#32;MD&A: Management's discussion and analysisMMDA:&#32;Money Market Deposit AccountsMoody's: Moody's Investor Services&#32;Mortgage origination channels:Retail &#8211; Borrowers who buy or refinance a home through direct contact with a mortgage banker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by a banker in a Chase branch, real estate brokers, home builders or other third parties.Correspondent &#8211; Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions that sell closed loans to the Firm.Mortgage product types:&#32;Alt-A&#32;Alt-A loans are generally higher in credit quality than subprime loans but have characteristics that would disqualify the borrower from a traditional prime loan. Alt-A lending characteristics may include one or more of the following: (i) limited documentation; (ii) a high&#32;CLTV ratio; (iii) loans secured by non-owner occupied properties; or (iv) a debt-to-income ratio above normal limits. A substantial proportion of&#32;the Firm's Alt-A loans are those where a borrower does not provide complete documentation of his or her assets or the amount or source of his or her income.&#32;Option ARMs&#32;The option ARM real estate loan product is an adjustable-rate mortgage loan that provides the borrower with the option each month to make a fully amortizing, interest-only or minimum payment. The minimum payment on an option ARM loan is based on the interest rate charged during the introductory period. This introductory rate is usually significantly below the fully indexed rate. The fully indexed rate is calculated using an index rate plus a margin. Once the introductory period ends, the contractual interest rate charged on the loan increases to the fully indexed rate and adjusts monthly to reflect movements in the index. The minimum payment is typically insufficient to cover interest accrued in the prior month, and any unpaid interest is deferred and added to the principal balance of the loan. &#160;Option ARM loans are subject to payment recast, which converts the loan to a variable-rate fully amortizing loan upon meeting specified loan balance and anniversary date triggers.&#32;Prime&#32;Prime mortgage loans are made to borrowers with good credit records who meet specific underwriting requirements, including prescriptive requirements related to income and overall debt levels. New prime mortgage borrowers provide full documentation and generally have reliable payment histories.&#32;Subprime&#32;Subprime loans are loans that, prior to mid-2008, were offered to certain customers with one or more high risk characteristics, including but not limited to: (i) unreliable or poor payment histories; (ii) a high LTV ratio of greater than 80% (without borrower-paid mortgage insurance); (iii) a high debt-to-income ratio; (iv) an occupancy type for the loan is other than the borrower's primary residence; or (v) a history of delinquencies or late payments on the loan.&#32;MSA: Metropolitan statistical areas&#32;MSR: Mortgage servicing rights&#32;Multi-asset: Any fund or account that allocates assets under management to more than one asset class.NA:&#32;Data is not applicable or available for the period presented.&#32;NAV:&#32;Net Asset Value&#32;Net Capital Rule: Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.Net charge-off/(recovery) rate: Represents net charge-offs/(recoveries) (annualized) divided by average retained loans for the reporting period.Net mortgage servicing revenue includes the following components:Operating revenue predominantly represents the return on Mortgage Servicing's MSR asset and includes:&#8211; Actual gross income earned from servicing third-party mortgage loans, such as contractually specified servicing fees and ancillary income; and&#8211; The change in the fair value of the MSR asset due to the collection or realization of expected cash flows.Risk management represents the components ofMortgage Servicing's MSR asset that are subject to ongoing risk management activities, together with derivatives and other instruments used in those risk management activities.Net production revenue:&#32;Includes net gains or losses on originations and sales of mortgage loans, other production-related fees and losses related to the repurchase of previously sold loans.<hr 
