>30, 2012, losses were sustained on 29 days, of which three days exceeded the VaR measure due to the adverse effect of market movements on risk positions in the synthetic credit portfolio held by CIO.The following histogram illustrates the daily market risk related gains and losses for IB, CIO and Mortgage Production and Servicing positions for the six months ended June 30, 2012. This market risk related revenue is defined as the change in value of: principal transactions revenue for IB and CIO (excludes Private Equity gains/losses and unrealized and realized gains/losses from available for sale securities and other investments held for the longer term); market-based related net interest income for IB, CIO and Mortgage Production and Servicing; IB brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue; revenue &nbsp;from syndicated lending facilities that the Firm intends to distribute; and mortgage fees and related income for the Firm's mortgage pipeline and warehouse loans, MSRs, and all related hedges. Daily firmwide market risk related revenue excludes gains and losses from DVA.The chart shows that the Firm posted market risk related gains on 101 of the 130 days in this period, with three days exceeding $200 million. The IB and Credit Portfolio posted market risk related gains on 128 days in the period.The inset graph looks at those days on which the Firm experienced losses and depicts the amount by which the VaR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days. The IB and Credit Portfolio experienced two loss days and those loss days did not exceed its respective VaR measure.The histogram for the six months ended June 30, 2012, reflects the year to date losses incurred in the CIO synthetic credit portfolio.The following table provides information about the gross sensitivity of DVA to a one-basis-point increase in JPMorgan Chase's credit spreads. This sensitivity represents the impact from a one-basis-point parallel shift in JPMorgan Chase's entire credit curve. As credit curves do not typically move in a parallel fashion, the sensitivity multiplied by the change in spreads at a single maturity point may not be representative of the actual revenue recognized.&nbsp;99Economic-value stress testingWhile VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market behavior as an indicator of losses, stress testing captures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets using multiple scenarios that assume significant changes in credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates or commodity prices. Stress scenarios estimate extreme losses based on assumptions by risk management of potential macroeconomic market stress events, such as an equity market collapse or credit crisis. Scenarios are updated dynamically and may be redefined on an ongoing basis to reflect current market conditions. Along with VaR, stress testing is important in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing is also employed in cross-business risk management. Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on current market risk positions are reported to the Firm's senior management and to the lines of business to allow them to better understand event risk-sensitive positions and manage their risks with more transparency.Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures as well as stress testing include sensitivities to variables used to value positions, such as credit spread sensitivities, interest rate basis point values and market values. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line-of-business and by risk type, and are used for tactical control and monitoring limits.Loss advisories and revenue drawdownsLoss advisories and revenue drawdowns are tools used to highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk tolerance. Revenue drawdown is defined as the decline in net revenue since the year-to-date peak revenue level.Risk identification for large exposuresIndividuals who manage risk positions are responsible for identifying potential losses that could arise from specific, unusual events, such as a potential change in tax legislation, or a particular combination of unusual market moves. This information allows the Firm to monitor further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered by standard risk measures.Nontrading interest rate-sensitive revenue-at-risk (i.e., &#8220;earnings-at-risk&#8221;)Interest rate risk represents one of the Firm's significant market risk exposures. This risk arises not only from trading activities but also from the Firm's traditional banking activities which include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt (i.e., asset/&nbsp;liability management positions, accrual loans within IB and CIO, and off-balance sheet positions). ALCO establishes the Firm's interest rate risk policies and sets risk guidelines. Treasury, working in partnership with the lines of business, calculates the Firm's interest rate risk profile weekly and reviews it with senior management.Interest rate risk for nontrading activities can occur due to a variety of factors, including:The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through a transfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.100The Firm manages this interest rate risk generally through its investment securities portfolio and related derivatives. The Firm evaluates its nontrading interest rate risk exposure through the stress testing of earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which changes in interest rates will affect the Firm's core net interest income (see page 17 of this Form 10-Q for further discussion of core net interest income) and interest rate-sensitive fees (&#8220;nontrading interest rate-sensitive revenue&#8221;). Earnings-at-risk excludes the impact of trading activities and MSRs as these sensitivities are captured under VaR.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in nontrading interest rate-sensitive revenue under a variety of interest rate scenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in this revenue, and the corresponding impact to the Firm's pretax earnings, over the following 12 months. These tests highlight exposures to various interest rate-sensitive factors, such as the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests include forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset sales and securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior. Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on current interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historical experience and forward market expectations. The amount and pricing assumptions of deposits that have no stated maturity are based on historical performance, the competitive environment, customer behavior, and product mix.Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number of alternative scenarios are also reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve, nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.The change in earnings at risk from December&#160;31, 2011, resulted from higher expected deposit balances. The Firm's risk to rising rates was largely the result of widening deposit margins, which are currently compressed due to very low short-term interest rates, and ALM investment portfolio positioning.Additionally, another interest rate scenario used by the Firm &#8212; involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current &nbsp;levels &#8212; results in a 12-month pretax earnings benefit of $625 million. The increase in earnings under this scenario is due to reinvestment of maturing assets at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits, which reflect the Firm's risk appetite in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as the Firm's overall risk appetite, market volatility, product liquidity, accommodation of client business and management experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate level limits include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line of business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Limits may also be allocated within the lines of business, as well as the portfolio level.Limits are established by Market Risk in agreement with the lines of business, and in accordance with the overall risk appetite of the Firm. Limits are reviewed regularly by Market Risk and updated as appropriate, with any changes approved by lines of business management and Market Risk. Senior management, including the Firm's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Risk Officer, are responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk limits on an ongoing basis. All limits that have not been reviewed within specified time periods by Market Risk are escalated to senior management. The lines of business are responsible for adhering to established limits against which exposures are monitored and reported by a group within Market Risk.Limit breaches are required to be reported by a group within risk management in a timely manner to senior management. Market risk management consults with Firm senior management and lines of business senior management to determine the appropriate course of action required to return to compliance, which may include the reduction in risk in order to remedy the excess. Any limit excesses for three days or longer, or that are over limit by more than 30%, are escalated to senior management and the Firmwide Risk Committee.Model reviewThe Firm uses risk management models, including VaR and stress models, for the measurement, monitoring and management of risk positions. Valuation models are employed by the Firm to value certain financial instruments which cannot otherwise be valued using quoted prices. These valuation models may also be employed as inputs to risk management models, for example in VaR and economic stress models. The Firm also makes use of models for a number of other purposes, including the calculation of regulatory capital requirements.Models are owned by various functions within the Firm based on the specific purposes of such models. For 101example, VaR models and certain regulatory capital models are owned by the line-of-business aligned risk management functions. Owners of the models are responsible for the development, implementation and testing of models, as well as referral of models to the Model Review Group (within the Model Risk and Development Group) for review and approval. Once models have been approved, the model owners are required to maintain a robust operating environment and to monitor and evaluate the performance of models on an ongoing basis. It is also their responsibility to enhance models in response to changes in the portfolios and for changes in product and market developments, as well as improvements in available modeling techniques and systems capabilities, and to submit such enhancements to the Model Review Group for review.The Model Review Group reports within the Model Risk and Development Group, which in turn reports to the Chief Risk Officer. The Model Review Group is independent of the model owners and is responsible for reviewing and approving a wide range of models including risk management, valuation and certain regulatory capital models used by the Firm.Models are tiered by the model owner based on an internal standard according to their complexity, the exposure associated with the model and the Firm's reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the approval of the Model Review Group. The model reviews conducted by the Model Review Group consider a number of factors about the model's suitability for valuation or risk management of a particular product, or other purposes. The factors considered include the assigned model tier, whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of the instruments and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of model inputs, consistency with models for similar products, the appropriateness of any model related adjustments, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the market. When reviewing a model, the Model Review Group analyzes and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness of model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, including back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are approved by the appropriate level of management within the Model Review Group based on the relevant tier of the model.Under the Firm's model risk policy, new significant valuation, risk management and regulatory capital models, as well as major changes to such models, are required to be &nbsp;reviewed and approved by the Model Review Group prior to implementation into the operating environment. In addition, previously approved models are reviewed and re-approved periodically. The Model Review Group performs an annual firmwide model risk assessment where developments in the product or market are considered for each model to determine whether it must be reviewed.In the event that the Model Review Group does not approve a model, escalation to senior management is required and the model owner is required to remediate the model within a time period as agreed upon with the Model Review Group. The model owner is also required to resubmit the model for review to the Model Review Group and to take appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk in the interim. The actions taken will depend on the model that is disapproved and may include, for example, limitation of trading activity. The Firm also ensures that there are other appropriate risk measurement tools in place to augment the model that is subject to remediation.In limited circumstances, exceptions to the Firm's model risk policy may be granted by the Model Review Group to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval. Such exceptions have been applied to a small number of models and where this is the case, compensating controls similar to those above have been put in place.As part of the Firm's review of the CIO activities, the Firm has taken several steps to enhance the risk management model-related issues identified, including establishing a new team alongside the Model Review Group to review model usage and soundness of the model operational environment. See Recent developments on pages 10&#8211;11 of this Form 10-Q for further information on the Firm's review of the CIO activities, risk management as well as other steps taken to remediate identified issues.For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 107&#8211;108 of this Form 10-Q and Note 3 on pages 184&#8211;198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Risk reportingNonstatistical risk measures, VaR, loss advisories and limit excesses are reported daily to the lines of business and to senior management. Market risk exposure trends, VaR trends, profit-and-loss changes and portfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress-test results are also reported weekly to the lines of business and to senior management.102For a discussion of the Firm's Country Risk Management organization, and country risk identification, measurement, monitoring and control, see pages 163&#8211;165 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Annual Report.The Firm is exposed to country risk through its wholesale lending, investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Country exposure includes activity with both government and private-sector entities in a country. Under the Firm's internal risk management approach, country exposure is reported based on the country where the majority of the assets of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor are located or where the majority of its revenue is derived, which may be different than the domicile (legal residence) of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor. Exposures are generally measured by considering the Firm's risk to an immediate default of the counterparty or obligor, with zero recovery. Assumptions are sometimes required in determining the measurement and allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case of certain tranched credit derivative products. Different measurement approaches or assumptions would affect the amount of reported country exposure.The Firm's internal risk reporting differs from the reporting provided under FFIEC bank regulatory requirements. There are significant reporting differences in reporting methodology, including with respect to the treatment of collateral received and the benefit of credit derivative protection. For further information on the FFIEC's reporting methodology, see Cross-border outstandings on page 322 of&#32;JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Form 10-K.The following table presents the Firm's top 20 country exposures (excluding U.S.). The selection of countries is based solely on the Firm's largest total exposures by country, based on the Firm's internal risk management approach, and does not represent its view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions.&nbsp;103Selected European exposureSeveral European countries, including Spain, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Greece, have been subject to continued credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations. The Firm is closely monitoring its exposures in these countries and believes its nominal exposure to these five countries is modest relative to the Firm's aggregate nominal exposures. The Firm continues to &nbsp;conduct business and support client activity in these countries and, therefore, the Firm's aggregate net exposures and sector distribution may vary over time. In addition, the net exposures may be affected by changes in market conditions, including the effects of interest rates and credit spreads on market valuations and may return to more recent historical levels.The following table presents the Firm's direct exposure to these five countries at June&#160;30, 2012, as measured under the Firm's internal risk management approach.For individual exposures, corporate clients represent approximately 83%&#32;of the Firm's non-sovereign exposure in these five countries, and substantially all of the remaining 17%&#32;of the non-sovereign exposure is to the banking sector.Effect of credit derivatives on selected European exposuresCountry exposures in the Selected European table have been reduced through the purchase of credit derivatives on single-name CDS, index, and tranched credit products. All credit derivatives purchased and sold are presented on a net basis in the Selected European exposure table because &nbsp;market-making activities, and to a lesser extent, hedging activities, often result in selling and purchasing protection related to the same underlying reference entity. Single-name CDS and index credit derivatives are measured at the notional amount, net of the fair value of the derivative receivable or payable. Exposures for index credit derivatives are determined by evaluating the relevant country of each of the reference entities underlying the named index, and allocating the applicable amount of the notional and fair value&#160;for the index credit derivative to each of those countries. The methodology used to decompose tranched credit products into individual countries assumes all the 104portfolio names in that particular country default at the same time. Changes in this assumption can produce different results.Credit Portfolio Management activities are shown in the &#8220;Portfolio hedging&#8221; column in the table above and primarily represent single-name credit derivatives, as well as a more limited amount of index credit derivatives and short bond positions used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities and derivative counterparty exposure. In its Credit Portfolio Management activities, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to the maturity date of the exposures for which the protection was purchased. However, there are instances where the purchased protection has a shorter maturity date than the maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was purchased. These exposures are actively monitored and managed by the Firm. The effectiveness of the Firm's CDS protection as a hedge of the Firm's exposures may vary depending upon a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS. For further information about credit derivatives see Credit derivatives&#32;on pages 80&#8211;81, and Note 5&#32;on pages 136&#8211;144&#32;of this Form 10-Q.The &#8220;Trading&#8221; column includes approximately $9.0 billion&#32;of net purchased protection, including single name, index and tranched credit derivatives that are part of the Firm's market making activities as well as the synthetic credit portfolio held by CIO. The $9.0 billion&#32;of net purchased protection includes the following amounts: $3.1 billion&#32;(Spain), $3.3 billion&#32;(Italy), $0.2 billion&#32;(Ireland), $1.9 billion&#32;(Portugal) and $0.5 billion&#32;(Greece). These amounts include $7.3 billion&#32;of net purchased protection in the synthetic credit portfolio as of June&#160;30, 2012. Based on scheduled maturities and risk reduction actions being taken in the synthetic credit portfolio, the amount of protection provided by the synthetic credit portfolio relative to the five named countries is likely to be substantially reduced over time.Additional information on single-name credit derivativesThe notional amount of single-name CDS protection sold and purchased related to the five named European countries as of June 30, 2012, was $136.7 billion&#32;and $140.3 billion, respectively, prior to consideration of collateral and master netting agreements, and was $13.4 billion&#32;and $17.0 billion, respectively, after consideration of master netting agreements for single-name credit derivatives within the selected European countries. Approximately 30%&#32;and 50%&#32;of the gross notional amount of the single-name CDS sold and purchased relates to Spain and Italy, respectively, with the remaining amounts distributed relatively equally among the remaining named European countries. In each of the five countries, the aggregate gross notional amount of single name protection sold was more than 98%&#32;offset by the aggregate gross notional amount of single-name protection purchased on the same reference entities on which the Firm sold protection.&nbsp;The fair value of single-name CDS protection sold and purchased in the five named European countries as of June&#160;30, 2012, was $16.1 billion&#32;and $16.9 billion, respectively, prior to consideration of collateral and master netting agreements, and was $1.9 billion&#32;and $2.7 billion, respectively, after consideration of master netting agreements for single-name credit derivatives within the selected European countries.Counterparty credit risk related to credit derivativesThe Firm's net presentation reflects the manner in which this exposure is managed, and reflects, in the Firm's view, the substantial mitigation of counterparty credit and market risk in its credit derivative activities. For example, counterparty credit risk on single-name purchased protection has been substantially mitigated based on the following characteristics, by notional amount, as of June&#160;30, 2012: 99%&#32;is purchased under contracts that require posting of cash collateral; 88%&#32;is purchased from investment-grade counterparties domiciled outside of the select European countries; and 76%&#32;of the protection purchased offsets protection sold on the identical reference entity, with the identical counterparty subject to master netting agreement. Similarly, index credit derivatives are generally executed with investment-grade counterparties domiciled outside of the select European countries and require posting of cash collateral and therefore counterparty credit risk is substantially mitigated.* * *During the second quarter of 2012, the economic weaknesses and political uncertainty in Europe deepened, evidenced by increases in certain credit spreads and in Italian and Spanish government bond yields, and in sovereign rating downgrades of Spain. Investor confidence diminished due to the continued uncertainty regarding the unity of the Eurozone and significant fiscal challenges and austerity measures within the selected European countries. The Firm performs multiple stress tests in order to estimate the potential economic loss to its assets and liabilities under a variety of macroeconomic market stress events (See Economic-value stress testing&#32;on pages 100&#8211;101&#32;of this Form 10-Q). However, stress testing cannot predict the full consequences of a systemic market event, such as what might occur if the situation worsens or a country or countries exits the Eurozone. In addition to disruptions in the capital markets, loss of confidence in the financial services industry, and a slowdown in global economic activity, other potential consequences could include disruptions to foreign exchange, to payment and settlement systems and in the operation of stock exchanges and other clearing systems, as well as other systemic issues. Furthermore, the possible re-denomination of assets and contracts could have a significant impact on exposures in Europe and is not possible to quantify with any certainty. The Firm continues to monitor events in Europe. See, also, Risk Factors on pages 7&#8211;17 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Form 10-K.105For a discussion of Private Equity Risk Management, see page 166 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report. At June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, the carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio was $7.9 billion&#32;and $7.7 billion, respectively, of which $863 million&#32;and $805 million, respectively, represented securities with publicly available market quotations.For a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's Operational Risk Management, see pages 166&#8211;167 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.&nbsp;For a discussion of the Firm's Reputation and Fiduciary Risk Management, see page 167 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.&nbsp;The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Regulatory developments&#32;on pages 11&#8211;12&#32;of this Form 10-Q, and the Supervision and Regulation section on pages 1&#8211;7 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Form 10-K.&nbsp;DividendsAt June&#160;30, 2012, JPMorgan Chase's banking subsidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, $11.5 billion&#32;in dividends to their respective bank holding companies without the prior approval of their relevant banking regulators.106JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities and the related business and risk management strategies, which may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained wholesale and consumer loan portfolios, as well as the Firm's wholesale and consumer lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet date. For further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Allowance for Credit Losses on pages 155&#8211;157 and Note 15 on pages 252&#8211;255 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Annual Report; for amounts recorded as of June&#160;30, 2012&#32;and 2011, see Allowance for Credit Losses&#32;on pages 93&#8211;95&#32;and Note 14&#32;on page 176&#32;of this Form 10-Q.As noted in the discussion on page 168 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Annual Report, the Firm's allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors, depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the Firm's assumptions could affect the Firm's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. For example, deterioration in the following inputs would have the following effects on the Firm's modeled loss estimates as of June&#160;30, 2012, without consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm's allowance for loan losses:&nbsp;The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on credit loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to imply management's expectation of future deterioration of those risk factors.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors might affect the allowance for credit losses because management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm follows in evaluating the risk factors related to its loans, including risk ratings, home price assumptions, and credit card loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of the allowance for credit loss is appropriate.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including mortgage, home equity and other loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral.Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3 on pages 119&#8211;133 of this Form 10-Q.107(a) Included $52.8 billion&#32;of level 3 assets, consisting of recurring and nonrecurring assets carried by IB.ValuationFair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a similar instrument, fair value is generally based on models that consider relevant transaction data such as maturity and use as inputs market-based or independently sourced parameters. Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack of observability of significant inputs, management must assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs &#8212; including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Finally, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's credit-worthiness, liquidity considerations, unobservable &nbsp;parameters, and for certain portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see Note 3 on pages 119&#8211;133 of this Form 10-Q.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios.The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of different methodologies or assumptions to those used by the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm's valuation process and hierarchy, and determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3 on pages 119&#8211;133 of this Form 10-Q and Note 3 on pages 184-198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Goodwill impairmentManagement applies significant judgment when testing goodwill for impairment. For a description of the significant valuation judgments associated with goodwill impairment, see Goodwill impairment on page 171 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.During the six months ended June 30, 2012, the Firm updated the discounted cash flow valuations of certain consumer lending businesses in RFS and Card, which continue to have elevated risk for goodwill impairment due to their exposure to U.S. consumer credit risk and the effects of economic, regulatory and legislative changes. The assumptions used in the valuation of these businesses include: (a) estimates of future cash flows for the business (which are dependent on outstanding loan balances, net interest margin, operating expense, credit losses and the amount of capital necessary given the risk of business activities to meet regulatory capital requirements), and (b) the cost of equity used to discount those cash flows to a present value. Each of these factors requires significant judgment and the assumptions used are based on management's best estimate and most current projections, including the anticipated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, derived from the Firm's business forecasting process reviewed with senior management. These projections are consistent with the short-term assumptions discussed in the Business outlook on pages 9&#8211;10 of this Form 10-Q, and, in the longer term, incorporate a 108set of macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm's best estimates of long-term growth and returns of its businesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark its assumptions and estimates.In addition, the Firm evaluated the effect of recent increases in the estimated market cost of equity on the estimated value of its capital markets businesses in IB. For its other businesses, the Firm reviewed current conditions (including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes) and prior projections of business performance. Based upon the updated valuations and reviews, the Firm concluded that goodwill allocated to all of its reporting units was not impaired at&#160;June 30, 2012.The fair value of the Firm's consumer lending businesses in RFS and Card each exceeded their carrying values by approximately 15%. Deterioration in economic market conditions, increased estimates of the effects of recent regulatory or legislative changes, or additional regulatory or legislative changes may result in declines in projected business performance beyond management's current expectations. For example, in RFS, such declines could result from increases in costs to resolve foreclosure-related matters or from deterioration in economic conditions that result in increased credit losses, including decreases in home prices beyond management's current expectations. In Card, declines in business performance could result from deterioration in economic conditions such as increased unemployment claims or bankruptcy filings that result in increased credit losses or changes in customer behavior that cause decreased account activity or receivable balances. In addition, the earnings or estimated cost of equity of the Firm's capital markets businesses could also be affected by regulatory or legislative changes. Declines in business performance, increases in equity capital requirements, or increases in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.For additional information on goodwill, see Note 16 on pages 184&#8211;187 of this Form 10-Q.&nbsp;Income taxesFor a description of the significant assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes, see Income taxes on pages 171&#8211;172 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Litigation reservesFor a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves, see Note 23&#32;on pages 196&#8211;205&#32;of this Form 10-Q, and Note 31 on pages 290&#8211;299 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Annual Report.109Fair value measurement and disclosuresIn May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (&#8220;FASB&#8221;) issued guidance that amends the requirements for fair value measurement and disclosure.&#160;The guidance changes and clarifies certain existing requirements related to portfolios of financial instruments and valuation adjustments, requires additional disclosures for fair value measurements categorized in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (including disclosure of the range of inputs used in certain valuations), and requires additional disclosures for certain financial instruments that are not carried at fair value.&#160;The guidance was effective in the first quarter of 2012, and the Firm adopted the new guidance, effective January 1, 2012. The application of this guidance did not have a material effect on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Accounting for repurchase and similar agreements In April 2011, the FASB issued guidance that amends the criteria used to assess whether repurchase and similar agreements should be accounted for as financings or sales (purchases) with forward agreements to repurchase (resell). Specifically, the guidance eliminates circumstances in which the lack of adequate collateral maintenance requirements could result in a repurchase agreement being accounted for as a sale. The guidance was effective for new transactions or existing transactions that were modified beginning January 1, 2012. The Firm has accounted for its repurchase and similar agreements as secured financings, and therefore, the application of this guidance did not have an impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.&nbsp;Presentation of other comprehensive incomeIn June 2011, the FASB issued guidance that modifies the presentation of other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The guidance requires that items of net income, items of other comprehensive income, and total comprehensive income be presented in one continuous statement or in two separate but consecutive statements. For public companies the guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. However, in December 2011, the FASB issued guidance that deferred the presentation requirements relating to reclassifications of items from AOCI and into the income statement. The guidance was effective in the first quarter of 2012, and the Firm adopted the new guidance, effective January 1, 2012. The application of this guidance only affected the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and had no impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.Balance sheet nettingIn December 2011, the FASB issued guidance that requires enhanced disclosures about derivatives and securities financing agreements that are subject to legally enforceable master netting or similar agreements, or that have otherwise been offset on the balance sheet under certain specific conditions that permit net presentation. The guidance will become effective in the first quarter of 2013. The application of this guidance will only affect the disclosure of these instruments and will have no impact on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets or results of operations.110From time to time, the Firm has made and will make forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as &#8220;anticipate,&#8221; &#8220;target,&#8221; &#8220;expect,&#8221; &#8220;estimate,&#8221; &#8220;intend,&#8221; &#8220;plan,&#8221; &#8220;goal,&#8221; &#8220;believe,&#8221; or other words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements provide JPMorgan Chase's current expectations or forecasts of future events, circumstances, results or aspirations. JPMorgan Chase's disclosures in this Form 10-Q contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Firm also may make forward-looking statements in its other documents filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Firm's senior management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others.All forward-looking statements are, by their nature, subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Firm's control. JPMorgan Chase's actual future results may differ materially from those set forth in its forward-looking statements. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete, below are certain factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements:&nbsp;Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Firm speak only as of the date they are made, and JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made. The reader should, however, consult any further disclosures of a forward-looking nature the Firm may make in any subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, or Current Reports on Form 8-K.111JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of income (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.112JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.113JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated balance sheets (unaudited)The assets of the consolidated VIEs are used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The holders of the beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of JPMorgan Chase. At both June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, the Firm provided limited program-wide credit enhancement of $3.1 billion&#32;related to its Firm-administered multi-seller conduits, which are eliminated in consolidation. For further discussion, see Note 15 on pages 177&#8211;184 of this Form 10-Q.The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.114JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of changes in stockholders' equity (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.115JPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated statements of cash flows (unaudited)The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited) are an integral part of these statements.116NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)Note 1 &#8211; Basis of presentationJPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase&#8221; or the &#8220;Firm&#8221;), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the United States of America (&#8220;U.S.&#8221;), with operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small business, commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management and private equity. For a discussion of the Firm's business segments, see Note 24 on pages 206&#8211;208 of this Form 10-Q.The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase&#32;and its subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (&#8220;U.S. GAAP&#8221;). Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by regulatory authorities.The unaudited consolidated financial statements prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expense, and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different from these estimates. In the opinion of management, all normal, recurring adjustments have been included for a fair statement of this interim financial information.These unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements, and related notes thereto, included in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the &#8220;2011 Annual Report&#8221;).Certain amounts reported in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.Restatement of first quarter 2012 previously-filed interim financial statementsThe Firm restated its previously-filed interim financial statements for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2012. The restatement related to valuations of certain positions in the synthetic credit portfolio held by the Firm's Chief Investment Office (&#8220;CIO&#8221;) and reduced the Firm's reported net income by $459 million&#32;for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The restatement had no impact on any of the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, or for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. In addition, the restatement had no impact on the Firm's basic and diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.Note 2 &#8211; Business changes and developmentsIncrease in common stock dividendOn March 13, 2012, the Board of Directors increased the Firm's quarterly common stock dividend from $0.25&#32;to $0.30&#32;per share, effective with the dividend paid on April 30, 2012, to shareholders of record on April 5, 2012.Common equity repurchasesOn March&#160;13, 2012, the Board of Directors authorized a $15.0 billion&#32;common equity (i.e., common stock and warrants) repurchase program, of which $12.0 billion&#32;is approved for repurchase in 2012. The $15.0 billion&#32;repurchase program supersedes a $15.0 billion&#32;repurchase program approved in 2011. The $15.0 billion&#32;authorization includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's employee stock-based incentive plans.For additional information on repurchases see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds, on pages 222&#8211;223&#32;of this Form 10-Q.Global settlement on servicing and origination of mortgagesOn February 9, 2012, the Firm announced that it had agreed to a settlement in principle (the &#8220;global settlement&#8221;) with a number of federal and state government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice (&#8220;DOJ&#8221;), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the State Attorneys General, relating to the servicing and origination of mortgages. The global settlement, which became effective on April 5, 2012, calls for the Firm to, among other things: (i) make cash payments of approximately $1.1 billion, a portion of which will be set aside for payments to borrowers (&#8220;Cash Settlement Payment&#8221;); (ii) provide approximately $500 million&#32;of refinancing relief to certain &#8220;underwater&#8221; borrowers whose loans are owned and serviced by the Firm (&#8220;Refi Program&#8221;); and (iii) provide approximately $3.7 billion&#32;of additional relief for certain borrowers, including reductions of principal on first and second liens, payments to assist with short sales, deficiency balance waivers on past foreclosures and short sales, and forbearance assistance for unemployed homeowners (&#8220;Consumer Relief Program&#8221;). In addition, the global settlement requires the Firm to adhere to certain enhanced mortgage servicing standards. The Cash Settlement Payment was made on April 13, 2012.As the Firm performs refinancings under the Refi Program and provides relief to borrowers under the Consumer Relief Program, the Firm will receive credits that will reduce its remaining obligation under each of these programs. If the Firm does not meet certain targets set forth in the global settlement agreement for providing either refinancings under the Refi Program or other borrower relief under the 117Consumer Relief Program within certain prescribed time periods, the Firm must instead make additional cash payments. In general, 75%&#32;of the targets must be met within two years of the date of the global settlement and 100%&#32;must be achieved within three years of that date. The Firm expects to file its first quarterly report concerning its compliance with the global settlement with the Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight in November 2012. The report will include information regarding refinancings completed under the Refi Program and relief provided to borrowers under the Consumer Relief Program, as well as credits earned by the Firm under the global settlement as a result of performing such actions.The global settlement releases the Firm from certain further claims by participating government entities related to servicing activities, including foreclosures and loss mitigation activities; certain origination activities; and certain bankruptcy-related activities. Not included in the global settlement are any claims arising out of securitization activities, including representations made to investors respecting mortgage-backed securities; criminal claims; and repurchase demands from the GSEs, among other items.Also on February 9, 2012, the Firm entered into agreements with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (&#8220;Federal Reserve&#8221;) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) for the payment of civil money penalties related to conduct that was the subject of consent orders entered into with the banking regulators in April 2011. The Firm's payment obligations under those agreements will be deemed satisfied by the Firm's payments and provisions of relief under the global settlement.While the Firm expects to incur additional operating costs to comply with portions of the global settlement, including the enhanced servicing standards, the Firm's 2011 results of operations have reflected the estimated costs of the global settlement. Accordingly, the financial impact of the global settlement on the Firm's financial condition and results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2012, was not material. For further information on this global settlement, see Loans in Note 13 on pages 153&#8211;175 and Mortgage Foreclosure Investigations and Litigation in Note 23 on page 203 of this Form 10-Q.&nbsp;Washington Mutual, Inc. bankruptcy plan confirmationOn February 17, 2012, a bankruptcy court confirmed the joint plan containing the global settlement agreement resolving numerous disputes among Washington Mutual, Inc. (&#8220;WMI&#8221;), JPMorgan Chase and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (&#8220;FDIC&#8221;) as well as significant creditor groups (the &#8220;WaMu Global Settlement&#8221;). The WaMu Global Settlement was finalized on March 19, 2012, pursuant to the execution of a definitive agreement and court approval, and the Firm recognized additional assets, including certain pension-related assets, as well as tax refunds, resulting in a pretax gain of $1.1 billion&#32;for the three months ended March 31, 2012. For additional information related to the WaMu Global Settlement, see Washington Mutual Litigations in Note 23 on page 205 of this Form 10-Q.Subsequent eventsInterchange litigation settlementIn July 2012, the Firm signed a memorandum of understanding to enter into a settlement agreement to resolve the claims of a group of U.S. merchant and retail associations regarding credit card interchange rules and fees. The settlement agreement provides, among other things, that a cash payment of $6.05 billion&#32;will be made to the plaintiffs, of which the Firm's share is approximately 20%. The plaintiffs will also receive an amount equal to ten&#32;basis points of interchange for a period of eight&#32;months. The eight month period will begin after the court preliminarily approves the settlement agreement. The settlement agreement also provides for modifications to the credit card networks' (e.g., Visa and MasterCard) rules, including those that prohibit surcharging credit transactions. The settlement agreement is subject to court approval. The Firm expects that the financial impact of the proposed settlement on the Firm's financial condition and results of operations for the third quarter of 2012 and future periods will not be material. For additional information on this settlement agreement, see Interchange Litigation in Note 23 on page 199 of this Form 10-Q.Business segment changesOn July 27, 2012, the Firm announced that it will be reorganizing its business segments to reflect the manner in which the segments will be managed. As a result, Retail Financial Services (&#8220;RFS&#8221;) and Card Services & Auto (&#8220;Card&#8221;) businesses will be combined to form the Consumer & Community Banking segment. The Investment Bank (&#8220;IB&#8221;) and Treasury & Securities Services (&#8220;TSS&#8221;) businesses will be combined to form the Corporate & Investment Bank segment. Asset Management (&#8220;AM&#8221;) and Commercial Banking (&#8220;CB&#8221;) will remain unchanged. In addition, Corporate/Private Equity will not be affected.118Note 3 &#8211; Fair value measurementFair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.Valuation processThe Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining fair values.Risk-taking functions are responsible for providing fair value estimates for assets and liabilities carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. A valuation control function, which is independent of the risk-taking function, verifies the fair value estimates leveraging independently derived prices, valuation inputs and other market data, where available.Where independent prices or inputs are not available, additional review is performed by the valuation control function to ensure the reasonableness of information that cannot be verified to external independent data, and may include: evaluating the limited market activity including client unwinds; benchmarking of valuations inputs to those for similar instruments; decomposition of the valuation of structured instruments into individual components; comparing expected to actual cash flows; review of detailed profit and loss components, which are analyzed over time; review of trends in collateral valuation; and additional levels of management review for larger, more complex holdings.The valuation control function is also responsible for determining any valuation adjustments that may be required, based on market conditions and other specific facts and circumstances, to ensure that the Firm's positions are recorded at fair value. Judgment is required to assess the need for valuation adjustments to appropriately reflect counterparty credit quality; the Firm's creditworthiness; liquidity considerations; unobservable parameters; and, for certain portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk position. The determination of such adjustments follows a consistent framework across the Firm.Valuation model review and approvalIf prices or quotes are not available for an instrument or a similar instrument, fair value is generally determined using valuation models that consider relevant transaction data such as maturity and use as inputs market-based or independently sourced parameters. Where this is the case the price verification process described above is applied to the inputs to those models.&nbsp;The Firm's Model Review Group within the Firm's Model Risk and Development Group, which in turn reports to the Chief Risk Officer, is responsible for reviewing and approving valuation models used by the Firm. Model reviews consider a number of factors about the model's suitability for valuation of a particular product including whether it accurately reflects the significant risk characteristics of a particular product; the selection and reliability of model inputs; consistency with models for similar products; the appropriateness of any model-related adjustments; and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the market. In addition, the model reviews consider the reasonableness of model methodology and assumptions, and additional testing is conducted, including back-testing of model outcomes.All new significant valuation models, as well as major changes to existing models, are reviewed and approved prior to implementation except where specified conditions are met. Previously approved models are reviewed and re-approved periodically.For a further discussion of the Firm's valuation methodologies for assets, liabilities and lending-related commitments measured at fair value and the fair value hierarchy, see Note 3 on pages 184-198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.119The following table presents the asset and liabilities reported at fair value as of June&#160;30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, by major product category and fair value hierarchy.120121Level 3 valuationsThe Firm has established and well-documented processes for determining fair value, including for instruments where fair value is estimated using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). For further information on the Firm's valuation process and a detailed discussion of the determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3 on pages 184-198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, due to the lack of observability of significant inputs, management must assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs &#8212; including, but not limited to, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. Finally, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's credit worthiness, constraints on liquidity and unobservable &nbsp;parameters, where relevant. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole.The following table presents the Firm's primary level 3 financial instruments, the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of those financial instruments, and the significant unobservable inputs and the range of values for those inputs. While the determination to classify an instrument within level 3 is based on the significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement, level 3 financial instruments typically include observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources) in addition to the unobservable components. The level 1 and/or level 2 inputs are not included in the table. In addition, the Firm manages the risk of the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.The range of values presented in the table is representative of the highest and lowest level input used to value the significant instruments within a classification. The input range does not reflect the level of input uncertainty, instead it is driven by the different underlying characteristics of the various instruments within the classification.For more information on valuation inputs and control, see Note 3 on pages 184-198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.122Changes in unobservable inputsThe following provides a description of the impact on a fair value measurement of a change in an unobservable input, and the interrelationship between unobservable inputs, where relevant and significant. The impact of changes in inputs may not be independent, therefore the descriptions provided below indicate the impact of a change in an input in isolation. Where relationships exist between two unobservable inputs, those relationships are discussed below. Relationships may also exist between observable and &nbsp;unobservable inputs (for example, as observable interest rates rise, unobservable prepayment rates decline). Such relationships have not been included in the discussion below. In addition, for each of the individual relationships described below, the inverse relationship would also generally apply.123Discount rates and spreadsYield &#8211; The yield of an asset is the interest rate used to discount future cash flows in a discounted cash flow calculation. An increase in the yield, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.Credit spread &#8211; The credit spread is the amount of additional annualized return over the market interest rate that a market participant would demand for taking exposure to the credit risk of an instrument. The credit spread for an instrument forms part of the discount rate used in a discounted cash flow calculation. Generally an increase in the credit spread would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.Performance rates of underlying collateral in collateralized obligations (e.g. MBS, CLOs, etc.)Prepayment speed &#8211; The prepayment speed is a measure of the voluntary unscheduled principal repayments of a prepayable obligation in a collateralized pool. Prepayment speeds generally decline as borrower delinquencies rise. An increase in prepayment speeds, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement of assets valued at a premium to par and an increase in a fair value measurement of assets valued at a discount to par.Conditional default rate &#8211; The conditional default rate is a measure of the reduction in the outstanding collateral balance underlying a collateralized obligation as a result of defaults. While there is typically no direct relationship between conditional default rates and prepayment speeds, collateralized obligations for which the underlying collateral have high prepayment speeds will tend to have lower conditional default rates. An increase in conditional default rates would generally be accompanied by an increase in loss severity and an increase in credit spreads. An increase in the conditional default rate, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.Loss severity &#8211; The loss severity (the inverse of which is termed the recovery rate) is the expected amount of future realized losses resulting from the ultimate liquidation of a particular loan, expressed as the net amount of loss relative to the outstanding loan balance. An increase in loss severity is generally accompanied by an increase in conditional default rates. An increase in the loss severity, in isolation, would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.CorrelationCorrelation is a measure of the relationship between the movements of two variables (e.g., how the change of one &nbsp;variable influences change in the other). Correlation is a pricing input for a derivative product where the payoff is driven by one or more underlying risks. Correlation inputs are related to the type of derivative (e.g., interest rate, credit, equity and foreign exchange) due to the nature of the underlying risks. When parameters are positively correlated, an increase for one will result in an increase for the other. When parameters are negatively correlated, an increase for one will result in a decrease for the other. An increase in correlation can result in an increase or a decrease in a fair value measurement. Given a short correlation position, an increase in correlation, in isolation, would generally result in a decrease in a fair value measurement.Default correlation &#8211; Default correlation measures whether the loans that collateralize an issued CLO are more likely to default together or separately. An increase in default correlation would result in a decrease in a fair value measurement of a senior tranche in the capital structure of a collateralized obligation.VolatilityVolatility is a measure of the variability in possible returns for an instrument, parameter or market index given how much the particular instrument, parameter or index changes in value over time. Volatility is a pricing input for options, including equity options, commodity options, and interest rate spread options. Generally, the higher the volatility of the underlying, the riskier the instrument. Given a long position in an option, an increase in volatility, in isolation, would generally result in an increase in a fair value measurement.EBITDA multipleEBITDA multiples refer to the input (often derived from the value of a comparable company) that is multiplied by the historic and/or expected earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (&#8220;EBITDA&#8221;) of a company in order to estimate the company's value. An increase in the EBITDA multiple, in isolation, net of adjustments, would result in an increase in a fair value measurement.Net asset valueNet asset value is the total value of a fund's assets less liabilities. An increase in net asset value would result in an increase in a fair value measurement.124Changes in level 3 recurring fair value measurementsThe following tables include a rollforward of the Consolidated Balance Sheet amounts (including changes in fair value) for financial instruments classified by the Firm within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within level 3, the determination is based on the significance of the unobservable parameters to the overall fair value measurement. However, level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or level 3 components, observable &nbsp;components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources); accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology. Also, the Firm risk-manages the observable components of level 3 financial instruments using securities and derivative positions that are classified within level 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy; as these level 1 and level 2 risk management instruments are not included below, the gains or losses in the following tables do not reflect the effect of the Firm's risk management activities related to such level 3 instruments.125126127128129$(260) million&#32;and $103 million&#32;for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, and were $(164) million&#32;and $434 million&#32;for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.&#160;Unrealized gains/(losses) recorded on AFS securities in OCI were $(55) million&#32;and $(8) million&#32;for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, and were $(140) million&#32;and $148 million&#32;for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.Level 3 analysisConsolidated Balance Sheets changesLevel 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 4.6%&#32;of total Firm assets at June 30, 2012. Level 3 assets (including assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis) were 12.6%&#32;of total Firm assets measured at fair value at June 30, 2012. The following describes significant changes to level 3 assets since December 31, 2011.For the three months ended June&#160;30, 2012Level 3 assets were $106.2 billion&#32;at June 30, 2012, reflecting a decrease of $3.0 billion&#32;from the first quarter largely related to:For the six months ended June&#160;30, 2012Level 3 assets decreased by $12.2 billion&#32;in the first six months of 2012, due to the following:Gains and lossesIncluded in the tables for the three months ended June 30, 2012Included in the tables for the three months ended June 30, 2011&nbsp;Included in the tables for the six months ended June 30, 2012Included in the tables for the six months ended June 30, 2011Credit adjustmentsWhen determining the fair value of an instrument, it may be necessary to record a valuation adjustment to arrive at an exit price under U.S. GAAP. Valuation adjustments include, but are not limited to, amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the Firm's own creditworthiness. The market's view of the Firm's credit quality is reflected in credit spreads observed in the credit default swap (&#8220;CDS&#8221;) market. For a detailed discussion of the valuation adjustments the Firm considers, see the valuation discussion in Note 3 on pages 184&#8211;188 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The following table provides the credit adjustments, excluding the effect of any hedging activity, reflected within the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the dates indicated.130election under the fair value option. For further information on these elections, see Note 4 on pages 133&#8211;135 of this Form 10-Q.The following table provides the impact of credit adjustments on earnings in the respective periods, excluding the effect of any hedging activity. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basisCertain assets, liabilities and unfunded lending-related commitments are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis; that is, they are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment). At June 30, 2012, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were $2.6 billion&#32;comprised predominantly of loans that had fair value adjustments in the first six months of 2012. At December 31, 2011, assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were $5.3 billion, comprised predominantly of loans that had fair value adjustments during the twelve months of 2011. At June 30, 2012, $296 million&#32;and $2.3 billion&#32;of these assets were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. At December 31, 2011, $369 million&#32;and $4.9 billion&#32;of these assets were classified in levels 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy, respectively. Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis were not significant at June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011. For the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, there were no significant transfers between levels 1, 2, and 3. The total change in the value of assets and liabilities for which a fair value adjustment has been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, related to financial instruments held at those dates, were losses of $514 million&#32;and $748 million, respectively; and for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, were losses of $881 million&#32;and $1.3 billion, respectively. These losses were predominantly associated with loans.For information about the measurement of impaired collateral-dependent loans, and other loans where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral (e.g., residential mortgage loans charged off in accordance with regulatory guidance), see Note 14 on pages 231&#8211;252 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.&nbsp;131Additional disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments that are not carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair valueThe following table presents the carrying values and estimated fair values at June 30, 2012, of financial assets and liabilities, excluding financial instruments which are carried at fair value on a recurring basis, and information is provided on their classification within the fair value hierarchy. For additional information regarding the financial instruments within the scope of this disclosure, and the methods and significant assumptions used to estimate their fair value, see Note 3 on pages 184&#8211;198 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The majority of the Firm's lending-related commitments are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, nor are they actively traded. The carrying value and estimated fair value of the Firm's wholesale lending-related commitments were as follows for the periods indicated.The Firm does not estimate the fair value of consumer lending-related commitments. In many cases, the Firm can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing the borrower notice or, in some cases, without notice as permitted by law. For a further discussion of the valuation of lending-related commitments, see page 119 of this Note.132Trading assets and liabilities &#8211; average balancesAverage trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated.Note 4 &#8211; Fair value optionFor a discussion of the primary financial instruments for which the fair value option was previously elected, including the basis for those elections and the determination of instrument-specific credit risk, where relevant, see Note 4 on pages 198&#8211;200 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Changes in fair value under the fair value option electionThe following table presents the changes in fair value included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, for items for which the fair value option was elected. The profit and loss information presented below only includes the financial instruments that were elected to be measured at fair value; related risk management instruments, which are required to be measured at fair value, are not included in the table.133134Difference between aggregate fair value and aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstandingThe following table reflects the difference between the aggregate fair value and the aggregate remaining contractual principal balance outstanding as of June&#160;30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, for loans, long-term debt and long-term beneficial interests for which the fair value option has been elected.At June&#160;30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, the contractual amount of letters of credit for which the fair value option was elected was $4.1 billion&#32;and $3.9 billion, respectively, with a corresponding fair value of $(78) million&#32;and $(5) million, respectively. For further information regarding off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, see Note 29 on pages 283&#8211;289 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.135Note 5 &#8211; Derivative instrumentsJPMorgan Chase makes markets in derivatives for customers and also uses derivatives to hedge or manage its market and credit risk exposures. For a further discussion of the Firm's use and accounting policies regarding derivative instruments, see Note 6 on pages 202-210 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011&#32;Annual Report.The Firm's disclosures are based on the accounting treatment and purpose of these derivatives. A limited number of the Firm's derivatives are designated in hedge &nbsp;accounting relationships and are disclosed according to the type of hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or net investment hedge). Derivatives not designated in hedge accounting relationships include certain derivatives that are used to manage certain risks associated with specified assets or liabilities (&#8220;specified risk management&#8221; positions) as well as derivatives used in the Firm's market-making businesses or for other purposes.The following table outlines the Firm's primary uses of derivatives and the related hedge accounting designation or disclosure category.Synthetic credit portfolioThe synthetic credit portfolio is a portfolio of index credit derivatives, including short and long positions, that was held by CIO. On July 2, 2012, CIO transferred the synthetic credit portfolio, other than a portion that aggregated to a notional amount of approximately $12 billion, to IB. Both the portion of the synthetic credit portfolio transferred to IB, as well as the portion retained by CIO, continue to be included in the gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivatives category on page 141 of this Note.136Notional amount of derivative contractsThe following table summarizes the notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2012, and December&#160;31, 2011.While the notional amounts disclosed above give an indication of the volume of the Firm's derivatives activity, the notional amounts significantly exceed, in the Firm's view, the possible losses that could arise from such transactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional amount is not exchanged; it is used simply as a reference to calculate payments.137Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated Balance SheetsThe following table summarizes information on derivative receivables and payables (before and after netting adjustments) that are reflected on the Firm's Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2012, and December&#160;31, 2011, by accounting designation (e.g., whether the derivatives were designated in hedge accounting relationships or not) and contract type. 138Impact of derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of IncomeThe following tables provide information related to gains and losses recorded on derivatives based on their hedge accounting designation or purpose.Fair value hedge gains and lossesThe following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in fair value hedge accounting relationships, as well as pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives and the related hedged items for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Firm includes gains/(losses) on the hedging derivative and the related hedged item in the same line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income.139Cash flow hedge gains and lossesThe following tables present derivative instruments, by contract type, used in cash flow hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such derivatives, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Firm includes the gain/(loss) on the hedging derivative in the same line item as the offsetting change in cash flows on the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of Income.Over the next 12 months, the Firm expects that $11 million&#32;(after-tax) of net gains recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;) at June 30, 2012, related to cash flow hedges will be recognized in income. The maximum length of time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is 9 years, and such transactions primarily relate to core lending and borrowing activities.140Net investment hedge gains and lossesThe following table presents hedging instruments, by contract type, that were used in net investment hedge accounting relationships, and the pretax gains/(losses) recorded on such instruments for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.Gains and losses on derivatives used for specified risk management purposesThe following table presents pretax gains/(losses) recorded on a limited number of derivatives, not designated in hedge accounting relationships, that are used to manage risks associated with certain specified assets and liabilities, including certain risks arising from the mortgage pipeline, warehouse loans, MSRs, wholesale lending exposures, AFS securities, foreign currency-denominated liabilities, and commodities-related contracts and investments. Gains and losses on derivatives related to market-making activities and other derivativesThe Firm makes markets in derivatives in order to meet the needs of customers and uses derivatives to manage certain risks associated with net open risk positions from the Firm's market-making activities, including the counterparty credit risk arising from derivative receivables. These derivatives, as well as all other derivatives (including the CIO synthetic credit portfolio) that are not included in the hedge accounting or specified risk management categories above, are included in this category. Gains and losses on these derivatives are recorded in principal transactions revenue. See Note 6 on pages 144&#8211;145 of this Form 10-Q for information on principal transactions revenue.141Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent featuresFor a more detailed discussion of credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features, see Note 6 on pages 202&#8211;210 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The following table shows the aggregate fair value of net derivative payables that contain contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a downgrade and the associated collateral the Firm has posted in the normal course of business at June 30, 2012, and December&#160;31, 2011.Derivative payables containing downgrade triggersThe following table shows the impact of a single-notch and two-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries, predominantly JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;), at June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, related to derivative contracts with contingent collateral or termination features that may be triggered upon a downgrade. Derivatives contracts generally require additional collateral to be posted or terminations to be triggered when the predefined threshold rating of major rating agencies is breached. A downgrade by a single rating agency that does not result in a rating lower than a preexisting corresponding rating provided by another major rating agency will generally not result in additional collateral or termination payment requirements. The liquidity impact in the table is calculated based upon a downgrade below the lowest current rating provided by major rating agencies.Liquidity impact of derivative downgrade triggersThe following tables show the carrying value of derivative receivables and payables after netting adjustments, and adjustments for collateral held (including cash, U.S. government and agency securities and other G7 government bonds) and transferred as of June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011.Impact of netting adjustments on derivative receivables and payablesTotal derivative collateral142Credit derivativesFor a more detailed discussion of credit derivatives, see Note 6 on pages 202&#8211;210 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The Firm is both a purchaser and seller of protection in the credit derivatives market and uses these derivatives for two primary purposes. First, in its capacity as a market-maker, the Firm actively manages a portfolio of credit derivatives by purchasing and selling credit protection, predominantly on corporate debt obligations, to meet the needs of customers. Second, as an end-user, the Firm uses credit derivatives to manage credit risk associated with lending exposures (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposures in the Firm's wholesale businesses, and to manage the credit risk arising from certain AFS securities and from certain financial instruments in the Firm's market-making businesses. In addition, the synthetic credit portfolio is a portfolio of index credit derivatives held by CIO. For more information on the synthetic credit portfolio, see the discussion on page 136 of this Note.The following tables present a summary of the notional amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes the Firm sold and purchased as of June 30, 2012, and &nbsp;December 31, 2011.As shown in the table below, the Firm manages the credit risk on contracts to sell protection by purchasing protection with identical or similar underlying reference instruments (including single-name, portfolio coverage or specified indices). Other purchased protection referenced in the following tables includes credit derivatives purchased on reference instruments where the Firm has not sold any protection on the identical reference instrument, as well as protection purchased through credit-related notes.The Firm does not use notional amounts of credit derivatives as the primary measure of risk management for such derivatives, because the notional amount does not take into account the probability of the occurrence of a credit event, the recovery value of the reference obligation (which typically reduces the amount actually required to be paid on the credit derivative contract), or related cash instruments and economic hedges, each of which reduces, in the Firm's view, the risks associated with such derivatives.Total credit derivatives and credit-related notes143The following tables summarize the notional and fair value amounts of credit derivatives and credit-related notes as of June 30, 2012, and December 31, 2011, where JPMorgan Chase&#32;is the seller of protection. The maturity profile is based on the remaining contractual maturity of the credit derivative contracts. The ratings profile is based on the rating of the reference entity on which the credit derivative contract is based. The ratings and maturity profile of credit derivatives and credit-related notes where JPMorgan Chase is the purchaser of protection are comparable to the profile reflected below.Note 6 &#8211; Noninterest revenueFor a discussion of the components of and accounting policies for the Firm's noninterest revenue, see Note 7 on pages 211&#8211;212 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of investment banking fees.The following table presents all realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in principal transactions revenue by major underlying type of risk exposures.Principal transactions revenue includes realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded on derivatives, other financial instruments, private equity investments, and physical commodities used in market-making and client-driven activities.In addition, principal transactions revenue also includes certain realized and unrealized gains and losses related to hedge accounting and specified risk management activities disclosed separately in Note 5, including: (a) certain derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships (primarily fair value hedges of commodity and foreign exchange risk), (b) certain derivatives used for &nbsp;specified risk management purposes, primarily to mitigate credit risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and (c) other derivatives, including the synthetic credit portfolio held by CIO. See Note 5 on pages 136-144 of this Form 10-Q for information on the income statement classification of gains and losses on derivatives.144used to manage the Firm's risk exposure to its physical commodities inventories. Gains/(losses) related to commodity fair&#32;value hedges were $203 million&#32;and $(498) million&#32;for the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Gains/(losses) related to commodity fair value hedges were $(279) million&#32;and $(138) million&#32;for the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.The following table presents components of asset management, administration and commissions.&nbsp;Note 7 &#8211; Interest income and Interest expenseFor a description of JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies regarding interest income and interest expense, see Note 8 on page 212 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Details of interest income and interest expense were as follows.145Note 8 &#8211; Pension and other postretirement employee benefit plansFor a discussion of JPMorgan Chase's pension and other postretirement employee benefit (&#8220;OPEB&#8221;) plans, see Note 9 on pages 213&#8211;222 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The following table presents the components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the Firm's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension, defined contribution and OPEB plans.The fair values of plan assets for the U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans and for the material non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $14.0 billion&#32;and $3.1 billion, respectively, as of June 30, 2012, and $11.9 billion&#32;and $3.0 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. See Note 19 on pages 189&#8211;190 of this Form 10-Q for further information on unrecognized amounts (i.e., net loss and prior service costs/(credit)) reflected in AOCI for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2012 and 2011.&nbsp;The Firm does not anticipate any contribution to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2012 at this time. For 2012, the cost associated with funding benefits under the Firm's U.S. non-qualified defined benefit pension plans is expected to total $39 million. The 2012&#32;contributions to the non-U.S. defined benefit pension and OPEB plans are expected to be $49&#160;million&#32;and $2&#160;million, respectively.Effective March 19, 2012, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. became the sponsor of the Washington Mutual Pension Plan and it is anticipated that the plan's net assets will be merged into the JPMorgan Chase Retirement Plan later in 2012.146Note 9 &#8211; Employee stock-based incentivesFor a discussion of the accounting policies and other information relating to employee stock-based incentives, see Note 10 on pages 222&#8211;224 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.The Firm recognized the following noncash compensation expense related to its various employee stock-based incentive plans in its Consolidated Statements of Income.In the first quarter of 2012, in connection with its annual incentive grant, the Firm granted 57 million&#32;RSUs and 14 million&#32;SARs with weighted-average grant date fair values of $35.62&#32;per RSU and $8.89&#32;per SAR.Note 10 &#8211; Noninterest expenseThe following table presents the components of noninterest expense.147Note 11 &#8211; SecuritiesSecurities are primarily classified as AFS or trading. Securities classified as trading are discussed in Note 3 on pages 119&#8211;133 of this Form 10-Q. Predominantly all of the AFS securities portfolio is held by CIO in connection with its asset-liability management objectives. At June 30, 2012, the average credit rating of the debt securities comprising the AFS portfolio was AA+ (based on external ratings where available and internal ratings which correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's). For additional information regarding AFS securities, see Note 12 on pages 225&#8211;230 of JPMorgan Chase's 2011 Annual Report.Realized gains and lossesThe following table presents realized gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairment (&#8220;OTTI&#8221;) losses that were recognized in income from AFS securities.The amortized costs and estimated fair values of AFS and held-to-maturity (&#8220;HTM&#8221;) securities were as follows for the dates indicated.148Securities impairmentThe following tables present the fair value and gross unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category at June 30, 2012, and December&#160;31, 2011.149Other-than-temporary impairmentThe following table presents OTTI losses that are included in the securities gains and losses table above.Changes in the credit loss component of credit-impaired debt securitiesThe following table presents a rollforward for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, of the credit loss component of OTTI losses that have been recognized in income, related to debt securities that the Firm does not intend to sell. Gross unrealized lossesGross unrealized losses have generally decreased since December&#160;31, 2011, including those that have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more.&#160;Except for certain securities that the Firm intends to sell for which the unrealized losses have been recognized in income during the second quarter of 2012, as of June 30, 2012, the Firm does not intend to sell the securities with a loss position in AOCI, and it is not likely that the Firm will be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Except for the securities reported in the table above for which credit losses have been recognized in income, the &nbsp;Firm believes that the securities with an unrealized loss in AOCI are not other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 30, 2012.Following is a description of the Firm's principal AFS securities positions with the most significant unrealized losses that have existed for 12 months or more as of June 30, 2012, and the key assumptions used in the Firm's estimate of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected from these investments.Mortgage-backed securities &#8211; Prime and Alt-A nonagencyAs of June 30, 2012, gross unrealized losses related to prime and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities issued by private issuers were $174 million, of which $170 million&#32;related to securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. The Firm has recognized OTTI on securities that are backed primarily by mortgages with higher credit risk characteristics based on collateral type, vintage and geographic concentration. The remaining securities that have not experienced OTTI generally either do not possess all of these characteristics or have sufficient credit enhancements to protect the investments. These credit enhancements are primarily in the form of subordination, which is a form of structural enhancement where realized losses associated with assets held in the vehicle that issued the securities are allocated to the various tranches of securities and considers the relative priority of claims on the assets and earnings of the issuing vehicle. The average credit enhancements associated with the below investment-grade positions that have experienced OTTI losses and those that have not are 7%&#32;and 17%, respectively.The Firm's cash flow estimates are based on a loan-level analysis that considers housing prices, loan-to-value (&#8220;LTV&#8221;) ratio, loan type, geographical location of the underlying property and unemployment rates, among other factors. The weighted-average underlying conditional default rate on the positions was forecasted to be 31%; the related weighted-average loss severity forecast was 50%; and estimated prepayment speeds ranged from 3%&#32;to 35%. Based on the results of this analysis, an OTTI loss of $19 million&#32;and $20 million&#32;was recognized for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012, respectively, on certain securities due to their higher loss assumptions, and the unrealized loss of $174 million&#32;is considered temporary as management believes that the credit enhancement levels for those securities remain sufficient to support the Firm's investment.Mortgage-backed securities &#8211; Non-U.S.As of June 30, 2012, gross unrealized losses related to non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities were $294 million, of which $231 million&#32;related to securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. Substantially all of these securities are rated &#8220;AAA,&#8221; &#8220;AA&#8221; or &#8220;A&#8221; and primarily represent mortgage exposures in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. The key assumptions used in analyzing non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities for potential credit losses 150<hr 
