>Management's discussion and analysisThis section of JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;(&#8220;Annual Report&#8221;), provides Management's discussion and analysis (&#8220;MD&A&#8221;) of the financial condition and results of operations of JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of Terms on pages 309&#8211;313&#32;for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking Statements on page 169) and in JPMorgan Chase's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;(&#8220;2014&#32;Form 10-K&#8221;), in Part I, Item 1A: Risk factors; reference is hereby made to both.JPMorgan Chase & Co.,&#32;a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the U.S., with operations worldwide; the Firm had $2.6 trillion&#32;in assets and $232.1 billion&#32;in stockholders' equity as of December&#160;31, 2014.&#32;The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#8220;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 23&#32;states, and Chase Bank USA, National Association (&#8220;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#8221;), a national banking association that is the Firm's credit card&#8211;issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (&#8220;JPMorgan Securities&#8221;), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm. The bank and nonbank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. One of the Firm's principal operating subsidiaries in the U.K.&#32;is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into four&#32;major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm's consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (&#8220;CCB&#8221;) segment. The Corporate & Investment Bank (&#8220;CIB&#8221;), Commercial Banking (&#8220;CB&#8221;), and Asset Management (&#8220;AM&#8221;) segments comprise the Firm's wholesale businesses. For a description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases refer to Business Segment Results on pages 79&#8211;104, and Note 33.This executive overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a complete description of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the enterprise risks and critical accounting estimates affecting the Firm and its various lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Summary of 2014 ResultsJPMorgan Chase reported record full-year 2014 net income of $21.8 billion, and record earnings per share of $5.29, on net revenue of $94.2 billion. Net income increased by $3.8 billion, or 21%, compared with net income of $17.9 billion, or $4.35 per share, in 2013. ROE for the year was 10%, compared with 9% for the prior year.The increase in net income in 2014 was driven by lower noninterest expense, largely offset by higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue. The decrease in noninterest expense was driven by lower legal expense as well as lower compensation expense.The provision for credit losses increased from the prior year as result of a lower level of benefit from reductions in the consumer allowance for loan losses, partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The decrease in the consumer allowance for loan losses was predominantly the result of continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio. The wholesale provision reflected a continued favorable credit environment. Total firmwide allowance for credit losses was $14.8 billion&#32;resulting in a loan loss coverage ratio of 1.55%, excluding the purchase credit-impaired (&#8220;PCI&#8221;) portfolio, compared with 1.80% in the prior year. The Firm's allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans retained, excluding the PCI &nbsp;portfolio and credit card, was 106% compared with 100% in 2013.Firmwide, net charge-offs were $4.8 billion for the year, down $1.0 billion, or 18% from 2013. Nonperforming assets at year-end were $8.0 billion, down $1.7 billion, or 18%.The Firm's results reflected solid underlying performance across its four major reportable business segments, with continued strong lending and deposit growth. Consumer & Community Banking was #1 in deposit growth for the third consecutive year and Consumer & Business Banking within Consumer & Community Banking was #1 in customer satisfaction among the largest U.S. banks for the third consecutive year as measured by The American Customer Satisfaction Index (&#8220;ACSI&#8221;). Credit card sales volume (excluding Commercial Card) was up 11% for the year. The Corporate & Investment Bank maintained its #1 ranking in Global Investment Banking Fees and moved up to a #1 ranking in Europe, Middle East and Africa (&#8220;EMEA&#8221;), according to Dealogic. Commercial Banking loans increased to $149 billion, an 8% increase compared with the prior year. Commercial Banking also had record gross investment banking revenue of $2.0 billion, up 18% compared with the prior year. Asset Management achieved twenty-three consecutive quarters of positive net long-term client flows and increased average loan balances by 16% in 2014.The Firm maintained its fortress balance sheet, ending the year with an estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in CET1 capital ratio of 10.2%, compared with 9.5% in the prior year. Total deposits increased to $1.4 trillion, up 6% from the prior year. Total stockholders' equity was $232 billion at December 31, 2014. (The Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in CET1 capital ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure, which the Firm uses along with the other capital measures, to assess and monitor its capital position. For further discussion of the Firm's capital ratios, see Regulatory capital on pages 146&#8211;153.)During 2014, the Firm continued to serve customers, corporate clients and the communities in which it does business. The Firm provided credit to and raised capital of $2.1 trillion for its clients during 2014; this included $19 billion lent to U.S. small businesses and $75 billion to nonprofit and government entities, including states, municipalities, hospitals and universities.The discussion that follows highlights the performance of each business segment compared with the prior year and presents results on a managed basis. For more information about managed basis, as well as other non-GAAP financial measures used by management to evaluate the performance of each line of business, see pages 77&#8211;78.Consumer & Community Banking&#32;net income was $9.2 billion, a decrease of 17% compared with the prior year, due to higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased, driven by spread compression and lower mortgage warehouse balances, largely offset by higher deposit balances in Consumer & Business Banking Management's discussion and analysisand higher loan balances in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue decreased, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income. The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, compared with $335 million in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $1.3 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $4.8 billion. Noninterest expense decreased from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking expense.Corporate & Investment Bank&#32;net income was $6.9 billion, a decrease of 22% compared with the prior year, primarily reflecting lower revenue as well as higher noninterest expense. Banking revenues decreased from the prior year primarily due to lower Lending revenues, driven by mark to market losses on securities received from restructured loans, compared to gains in the prior year, partially offset by higher investment banking fees. Markets & Investor Services revenues increased slightly from the prior year as 2013 included losses from FVA/DVA, primarily driven by FVA implementation, while the current year reflected lower Fixed Income Markets revenue. Credit Adjustments & Other revenue was a loss of $272 million. Noninterest expense increased compared with the prior year driven by higher noncompensation expense, predominantly due to higher legal expense and investment in controls. This was partially offset by lower performance-based compensation expense.Commercial Banking&#32;net income was $2.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense, predominantly offset by a lower provision for credit losses. Net interest income decreased from the prior year, reflecting yield compression, the absence of proceeds received in the prior year from a lending-related workout, and lower purchase discounts recognized on loan repayments, partially offset by higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue increased, reflecting higher investment banking revenue, largely offset by business simplification and lower lending fees. Noninterest expense increased from the prior year, largely reflecting higher investments in controls.Asset Management&#32;net income was $2.2 billion, an increase of 3% from the prior year, reflecting higher net revenue and lower provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by higher noninterest expense. Noninterest revenue increased from the prior year, due to net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital investments. Noninterest expense increased from the prior year, as the business continues to invest in both infrastructure and controls.Corporate&#32;net income was $864 million, an increase compared with a loss in the prior year. The current year included $821 million of legal expense, compared with $10.2 billion of legal expense, which included reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings, in the prior year.&nbsp;Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based on the current beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause the Firm's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements on page 169&#32;and the Risk Factors section on pages 8&#8211;17.Over the past few years, the Firm has been adapting to the regulatory environment while continuing to serve its clients and customers, invest in its businesses, and deliver strong returns to its shareholders. The Firm's initiatives include building a fortress control environment, de-risking and simplification of the organization, a disciplined approach to managing expense, evolving its capital assessment framework as well as rigorous optimization of the Firm's balance sheet and funding.The Firm has been devoting substantial resources to execute on its control agenda. The Oversight and Control function, established in 2012, has been working closely and extensively with the Firm's other control disciplines, including Compliance, Risk Management, Legal, Internal Audit, and other functions, to address the Firm's control-related projects that are cross-line of business and that have significant regulatory impact or respond to regulatory actions. The Firm's investment in the control agenda and investment in technology, are considered by management to be essential to the Firm's future. The Firm has substantially completed executing its business simplification agenda. In 2013, the Firm ceased originating student loans, exited certain high risk customers and became more selective about on-boarding certain customers. Following on these initiatives, in 2014, the Firm exited several non-core credit card co-branded relationships, sold the Retirement Plan Services business within AM, exited certain prepaid card businesses, reduced its offering of mortgage banking products, completed the sale of the CIB's Global Special Opportunity Group investment portfolio, and the sale and liquidation of a significant part of CIB's physical commodities business. In January 2015, the Firm completed the &#8220;spin out&#8221; of the One Equity Partners (&#8220;OEP&#8221;) private equity business (together with a sale of a portion of the OEP portfolio to a group of private equity firms). These actions will allow the Firm to focus on core activities for its core clients and reduce risk to the Firm. While it is anticipated that these exits will reduce revenues and expenses, they are not expected to have a meaningful impact on the Firm's profitability.The Firm's simplification agenda, however, is more extensive than exiting businesses, products or clients that were non-core, not at scale or not returning the appropriate level of return. The Firm is also focused on operational and structural simplicity, and streamlining and centralizing certain operational functions and processes in order to attain more consistencies and efficiencies across the Firm. To that end, the Firm is working on simplifying its legal entity structure, simplifying its Global Technology function, rationalizing its use of vendors, and optimizing its real estate location strategy.As the Firm continues to experience an unprecedented increase in regulation and supervision, it continues to evolve its financial architecture to respond to this changing landscape. In 2014, the Firm exceeded the minimum capital levels required by the current rules and intends to continue to build capital in response to the higher Global Systemically Important Bank (&#8220;G-SIB&#8221;) capital surcharge proposed by U.S. banking regulators. In addition, the Firm is adapting its capital assessment framework to review businesses and client relationships against G-SIB and applicable capital requirements, and imposing internal limits on business activities to align or optimize the Firm's balance sheet and RWA with regulatory requirements in order to ensure that business activities generate appropriate levels of shareholder value.The Firm intends to balance return of capital to shareholders with achieving higher capital ratios over time. The Firm expects the capital ratio calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach to become its binding constraint by the end of 2015, or slightly thereafter. The Firm anticipates reaching Basel III Fully Phased-In Advanced and Standardized CET1 ratios of approximately 11% by the end of 2015 and is targeting a Basel III CET1 ratio of approximately 12% by the end of 2018, assuming a 4.5% G-SIB capital surcharge. If the Firm's G-SIB capital surcharge is lower than 4.5%, the Firm will adjust its Basel III CET1 target accordingly. Likewise, the Firm will be evolving its funding framework to ensure it meets the current and proposed more stringent regulatory liquidity rules, including those relating to the availability of adequate Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (&#8220;TLAC&#8221;) at G-SIB organizations. The Firm estimated that it had, as of December 31, 2014, approximately 15% minimum TLAC as a percentage of Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in RWA, excluding capital buffers currently in effect, based on its understanding of how the Financial Stability Board's proposal may be implemented in the U.S. While the precise composition and calibration of TLAC, as well as the conformance period, are yet to be defined by U.S. banking regulators, the Firm expects the requirement will lead to incremental debt issuance by the Firm and higher funding costs over the next few years.The Firm expects it will continue to make appropriate adjustments to its businesses and operations in the year ahead in response to ongoing developments in the legal and regulatory, as well as business and economic, environment in which it operates. The Firm intends to take a disciplined approach to growing revenues and controlling expenses in light of its capital and liquidity constraints. The Firm's deep client relationships and its investments in its businesses, including branch optimization, new card relationships, expansion into new markets, and hiring additional sales staff and client advisors, are expected to generate significant revenue growth over the next several years. At the same time, the Firm intends to leverage its scale and improve its operating efficiencies so that it can fund these growth initiatives, as well as maintain its control and &nbsp;technology programs, without increasing its expenses. As a result, the Firm anticipates achieving a managed overhead ratio of&#32;approximately 55% over the next several years, including the impact of revenue growth.2015 Business OutlookJPMorgan Chase's outlook for the full-year 2015 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global and U.S. economies, financial markets activity, the geopolitical environment, the competitive environment, client activity levels, and regulatory and legislative developments in the U.S. and other countries where the Firm does business. Each of these inter-related factors will affect the performance of the Firm and its lines of business.Management expects core loan growth of approximately 10% in 2015. The Firm continues to experience charge-offs at levels lower than its through-the-cycle expectations; if favorable credit trends continue, management expects the Firm's total net charge offs could remain low, at an amount modestly over $4 billion in 2015, and expects a reduction in the consumer allowance for loan losses over the next two years.Firmwide adjusted expense in 2015 is expected to be approximately $57 billion, excluding Firmwide legal expenses and foreclosure-related matters.In Consumer & Business Banking within CCB, management expects continued spread compression in the deposit margin and a modest decline in net interest income in the first quarter of 2015. In Mortgage Banking within CCB, management expects quarterly servicing expense to decline to below $500 million by the second quarter of 2015 as default volume continues to decline. In Card Services within CCB, management expects the revenue rate in 2015 to remain at the low end of the target range of 12% to 12.5%. In CIB, Markets revenue in the first quarter of 2015 will be impacted by the Firm's business simplification initiatives completed in 2014, resulting in a decline of approximately $500 million, or 10%, in Markets revenue and a decline of approximately $300 million in expense, compared to the prior year first quarter. Based on strong performance to date, particularly in January, management currently expects 2015 first quarter Markets revenue to be higher than the prior year first quarter, even with the negative impact of business simplification; however, Markets revenue actual results will depend on performance through the remainder of the quarter, which can be volatile.Overall, the Firm expects the impact from its business simplification initiatives will be a reduction of approximately $1.6 billion in revenue and a corresponding reduction of approximately $1.6 billion in expense resulting in no meaningful impact on the Firm's 2015 anticipated net income. Management's discussion and analysisThe following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&#160;31, 2014. Factors that relate primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that business segment. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated Results of Operations, see pages 161&#8211;165.2014 compared with 2013Total net revenue for 2014 was down by $2.4 billion, or 2%, compared with the prior year, predominantly due to lower mortgage fees and related income, and lower other income. The decrease was partially offset by higher asset management, administration and commissions revenue.Investment banking fees increased compared with the prior year, due to higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, largely offset by lower debt underwriting fees. The increase in advisory fees was driven by the combined impact of a greater share of fees for completed transactions, and growth in industry-wide fee levels. The increase in equity underwriting fees was driven by higher industry-wide issuance. The decrease in debt underwriting fees was primarily related to lower bond underwriting compared with a stronger prior year, and lower loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fee levels. Investment banking fee share and industry-wide data are sourced from Dealogic, an external vendor. For additional information on investment &nbsp;banking fees, see CIB segment results on pages 92&#8211;96, CB segment results on pages 97&#8211;99, and Note 7.Principal transactions revenue, which consists of revenue primarily from the Firm's client-driven market-making and private equity investing activities, increased compared with the prior year as the prior year included a $1.5 billion loss related to the implementation of the FVA framework for OTC derivatives and structured notes. The increase was also due to higher private equity gains as a result of higher net gains on sales. The increase was partially offset by lower fixed income markets revenue in CIB, primarily driven by credit-related and rates products, as well as the impact of business simplification initiatives. For additional information on principal transactions revenue, see CIB and Corporate&#32;segment results on pages 92&#8211;96&#32;and pages 103&#8211;104, respectively, and Note 7.Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting the impact of business simplification initiatives and lower trade finance revenue in CIB. For additional information on lending- and deposit-related fees, see the segment results for CCB on pages 81&#8211;91, CIB on pages 92&#8211;96&#32;and CB on pages 97&#8211;99.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue increased compared with the prior year, reflecting higher asset management fees driven by net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels in AM and CCB. The increase was offset partially by lower commissions and other fee revenue in CCB as a result of the exit of a non-core product in the second half of 2013. For additional information on these fees and commissions, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 81&#8211;91, AM on pages 100&#8211;102, and Note 7.Securities gains decreased compared with the prior year, reflecting lower repositioning activity related to the Firm's investment securities portfolio. For additional information, see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 103&#8211;104&#32;and Note 12.Mortgage fees and related income decreased compared with the prior year. The decrease was predominantly due to lower net production revenue driven by lower volumes due to higher levels of mortgage interest rates, and tighter margins. The decline in net production revenue was partially offset by a lower loss on the risk management of mortgage servicing rights (&#8220;MSRs&#8221;). For additional information, see the segment discussion of CCB on pages 85&#8211;87&#32;and Note 17.Card income remained relatively flat but included higher net interchange income on credit and debit cards due to growth in sales volume, offset by higher amortization of new account origination costs. For additional information on credit card income, see CCB segment results on pages 81&#8211;91.Other income decreased from the prior year, predominantly as a result of the absence of two significant items recorded in Corporate in 2013, namely: a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of Visa shares and a $493 million gain from the sale of One Chase Manhattan Plaza. Lower valuations of seed capital investments in AM and losses related to the exit of non-core portfolios in Card also contributed to the decrease. These items were partially offset by higher auto lease income as a result of growth in auto lease volume, and a benefit from a tax settlement.Net interest income increased slightly from the prior year, predominantly reflecting higher yields on investment securities, the impact of lower interest expense, and higher average loan balances. The increase was partially offset by lower yields on loans due to the run-off of higher-yielding loans and new originations of lower-yielding loans, and lower average interest-earning trading asset balances. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.0 trillion, and the net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent (&#8220;FTE&#8221;) basis, was 2.18%, a decrease of 5 basis points from the prior year.2013 compared with 2012Total net revenue for 2013 was down by $425 million, or less than 1%. The 2013 results were driven by lower mortgage fees and related income, net interest income, and securities gains, predominantly offset by higher principal transactions revenue, and asset management, administration and commissions revenue.Investment banking fees increased compared with the prior year, reflecting higher equity and debt underwriting fees, partially offset by lower advisory fees. Equity and debt underwriting fees increased, driven by strong market issuance and greater share of fees in equity capital markets and loans. Advisory fees decreased, as industry-wide M&A fee levels declined. Investment banking fee share and industry-wide data are sourced from Dealogic, an external vendor.Principal transactions revenue increased compared with the prior year, reflecting CIB's strong equity markets revenue, partially offset by a $1.5 billion loss from implementing a FVA framework for OTC derivatives and structured notes in the fourth quarter of 2013, and a $452 million loss from DVA on structured notes and derivative liabilities (compared with a $930 million loss from DVA in the prior year). The prior year also included a $5.8 billion loss on the synthetic credit portfolio incurred by CIO in the six months ended June 30, 2012; a $449 million loss on the index credit derivative positions retained by CIO in the three months ended September 30, 2012; and additional modest losses incurred by CIB from the synthetic credit portfolio in the last six months of 2012. These losses were partially offset by a $665 million gain recognized in 2012 in Corporate, representing the recovery on a Bear Stearns-related subordinated loan.&nbsp;Lending- and deposit-related fees decreased compared with the prior year, largely due to lower deposit-related fees in CCB, resulting from reductions in certain product and transaction fees.Asset management, administration and commissions revenue increased from 2012, driven by higher investment management fees in AM due to net client inflows, the effect of higher market levels, and higher performance fees, and to higher investment sales revenue in CCB.Securities gains decreased compared with the prior-year period, reflecting the results of repositioning the CIO available-for-sale (&#8220;AFS&#8221;) portfolio.Mortgage fees and related income decreased in 2013 compared with 2012, reflecting lower Mortgage Banking net production and servicing revenue. The decrease in net production revenue was due to lower margins and volumes. The decrease in net servicing revenue was predominantly due to lower MSR risk management results.Card income increased compared with the prior year period, driven by higher net interchange income on credit and debit cards and higher merchant servicing revenue due to growth in sales volume.Other income decreased in 2013 compared with the prior year, predominantly reflecting lower revenues from significant items recorded in Corporate. In 2013, the Firm recognized a $1.3 billion gain on the sale of Visa shares, a $493 million gain from the sale of One Chase Manhattan Plaza, and a modest loss related to the redemption of TruPS. In 2012, the Firm recognized a $1.1 billion benefit from the Washington Mutual bankruptcy settlement and an $888 million extinguishment gain related to the redemption of TruPS. The net decrease was partially offset by higher revenue in CIB, largely from client-driven activity.Net interest income decreased in 2013 compared with the prior year, primarily reflecting the impact of the runoff of higher yielding loans and originations of lower yielding loans, and lower trading-related net interest income. The decrease in net interest income was partially offset by lower long-term debt and other funding costs. The Firm's average interest-earning assets were $2.0 trillion in 2013, and the net interest yield on those assets, on a FTE basis, was 2.23%, a decrease of 25 basis points from the prior year.Management's discussion and analysis2014 compared with 2013The provision for credit losses increased by $2.9 billion from the prior year as result of a lower benefit from reductions in the consumer allowance for loan losses, partially offset by lower net charge-offs. The consumer allowance release in 2014 was primarily related to the consumer, excluding credit card portfolio, and reflected the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio. The wholesale provision reflected a continued favorable credit environment. For a more detailed discussion of the credit portfolio and the allowance for credit losses, see the segment discussions of CCB on pages 81&#8211;91, CIB on pages 92&#8211;96&#32;and CB on pages 97&#8211;99, and the Allowance for credit losses section on pages 128&#8211;130.2013 compared with 2012The provision for credit losses decreased by $3.2 billion compared with the prior year, due to a higher benefit from reductions in the allowance for loan losses, as well as lower net charge-offs partially due to incremental charge-offs recorded in 2012 in accordance with regulatory guidance on certain loans discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy. The consumer allowance release in 2013 reflected the improvement in home prices in the residential real estate portfolio and improvement in delinquencies in the residential real estate and credit card portfolios. The 2013 wholesale provision reflected a favorable credit environment and stable credit quality trends.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013 Total noninterest expense decreased by $9.2 billion, or 13%, from the prior year, driven by lower other expense (in particular, legal expense) and lower compensation expense.Compensation expense decreased compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by lower headcount in CCB's Mortgage Banking business, lower performance-based compensation expense in CIB, and lower postretirement benefit costs. The decrease was partially offset by investments in the businesses, including headcount, for controls.Noncompensation expense decreased compared with the prior year, due to lower other expense, predominantly reflecting lower legal expense. Lower expense for foreclosure-related matters and lower production and servicing-related expense in CCB's Mortgage Banking business, lower FDIC-related assessments, and lower amortization expense due to the completion of the amortization of certain intangibles, also contributed to the decline. The decrease was offset partially by investments in the businesses, including for controls, and costs related to business simplification initiatives across the Firm. For a further discussion of legal expense, see Note 31. For a discussion of amortization of intangibles, refer to Note 17.2013 compared with 2012Total noninterest expense was up by $5.7 billion, or 9%, compared with the prior year, predominantly due to higher legal expense.Compensation expense increased in 2013 compared with the prior year, due to the impact of investments across the businesses, including front office sales and support staff, and costs related to the Firm's control agenda; these were partially offset by lower compensation expense in CIB and in CCB's Mortgage Banking business, reflecting the effect of lower servicing headcount.Noncompensation expense increased in 2013 from the prior year. The increase was due to higher other expense, reflecting $11.1 billion&#32;of firmwide legal expense, predominantly in Corporate, representing additional reserves for several litigation and regulatory proceedings, compared with $5.0 billion&#32;of expense in the prior year. Investments in the businesses, higher legal-related professional services expense, and costs related to the Firm's control agenda also contributed to the increase. The increase was offset partially by lower mortgage servicing expense in CCB and lower occupancy expense for the Firm, which predominantly reflected the absence of charges recognized in 2012 related to vacating excess space.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013The decrease in the effective tax rate from the prior year was largely attributable to the effect of the lower level of nondeductible legal-related penalties, partially offset by higher 2014 pretax income, in combination with changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes, and lower tax benefits associated with tax adjustments and the settlement of tax audits. For additional information on income taxes, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 161&#8211;165&#32;and Note 26.2013 compared with 2012The increase in the effective tax rate compared with the prior year was predominantly due to the effect of higher nondeductible legal-related penalties in 2013.&#160;This was largely offset by the impact of lower pretax income, in combination with changes in the mix of income and expense subject to U.S.&#160;federal, state and local taxes, business tax credits, tax benefits associated with prior year tax adjustments and audit resolutions.Management's discussion and analysisConsolidated balance sheets overview&#32;JPMorgan Chase's total assets and total liabilities increased by $157.4 billion and $136.6 billion, respectively, from December 31, 2013. &nbsp;The following is a discussion of the significant changes in the Consolidated balance sheets from December 31, 2013.Cash and due from banks and deposits with banksThe net increase was attributable to higher levels of excess funds primarily as a result of growth in deposits. The Firm's excess funds were placed with various central banks, predominantly Federal Reserve Banks.Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreementsThe decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements was predominantly attributable to a shift in the deployment of the Firm's excess cash by Treasury to deposits with banks and to client activity, including a decline in public deposits that require collateral.Trading assets and liabilities&#8211;debt and equity instrumentsThe increase in trading assets and liabilities predominantly related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB was primarily driven by higher levels of debt securities and trading loans. For additional information, refer to Note 3.Trading assets and liabilities&#8211;derivative receivables and payablesThe increase in both receivables and payables was predominantly due to client-driven market-making activities in CIB, specifically in interest rate derivatives as a result of market movements; commodity derivatives predominantly driven by the significant decline in oil prices; and foreign exchange derivatives reflecting the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against certain currencies. The increases were partially offset by a decline in equity derivatives. For additional information, refer to Derivative contracts on pages 125&#8211;127, and Notes 3 and 5.SecuritiesThe decrease was predominantly due to lower levels of non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities and U.S. Treasuries, partially offset by higher levels of obligations of U.S. states and municipalities and U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities. For additional information related to securities, refer to the discussion in the Corporate segment on pages 103&#8211;104, and Notes 3 and 12.Loans and allowance for loan lossesThe increase in loans was attributable to higher consumer and wholesale loans. The increase in consumer loans was due to prime mortgage originations in CCB and AM, as well as credit card, business banking and auto loan originations in CCB, partially offset by paydowns and charge-offs or liquidation of delinquent loans. The increase in wholesale loans was due to a favorable credit environment throughout 2014, which drove an increase in client activity.The decrease in the allowance for loan losses was driven by a reduction in the consumer allowance, predominantly as a result of continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;111, and Notes 3, 4, 14 and 15.Accrued interest and accounts receivableThe increase was due to higher receivables from security sales that did not settle, and higher client receivables related to client-driven market-making activities in CIB.Mortgage servicing rights For additional information on MSRs, see Note 17.Other assetsThe decrease was driven by several factors, including lower deferred tax assets; lower private equity investments due to sales, partially offset by unrealized gains; and lower real estate owned.DepositsThe increase was attributable to higher consumer and wholesale deposits. The increase in consumer deposits reflected a continuing positive growth trend, resulting from strong customer retention, maturing of recent branch builds, and net new business. The increase in wholesale deposits was driven by client activity and business growth. For more information on consumer deposits, refer to the CCB segment discussion on pages 81&#8211;91; the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 156&#8211;160; and Notes 3 and 19. For more information on wholesale client deposits, refer to the AM, CB and CIB segment discussions on pages 100&#8211;102, pages 97&#8211;99&#32;and pages 92&#8211;96, respectively, and the Liquidity Risk Management discussion on pages 156&#8211;160.Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreementsThe increase in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements was predominantly attributable to higher financing of the Firm's trading assets-debt and equity instruments. The increase was partially offset by client activity in CIB. For additional information on the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management, see pages 156&#8211;160.&nbsp;Commercial paperThe increase was due to commercial paper issuances in the wholesale markets consistent with Treasury's liquidity and short-term funding plans and, to a lesser extent, a higher volume of liability balances related to CIB's liquidity management product whereby clients choose to sweep their deposits into commercial paper. For additional information on the Firm's other borrowed funds, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 156&#8211;160.Accounts payable and other liabilitiesThe increase was attributable to higher client payables related to client short positions, and higher payables from security purchases that did not settle, both in CIB. The increase was partially offset by lower legal reserves, largely reflecting the settlement of legal and regulatory matters.Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEsThe increase was predominantly due to net new consolidated credit card and municipal bond vehicles, partially offset by a reduction in conduit commercial paper issued to third parties and the deconsolidation of certain mortgage securitization trusts. For further information on Firm-sponsored VIEs and loan securitization trusts, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements on pages 74&#8211;75&#32;and Note 16.Long-term debtThe increase was due to net issuances, consistent with Treasury's long-term funding plans. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activities, see Liquidity Risk Management on pages 156&#8211;160.Stockholders' equityThe increase was due to net income and preferred stock issuances, partially offset by the declaration of cash dividends on common and preferred stock, and repurchases of common stock. For additional information on accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (&#8220;AOCI&#8221;), see Note 25; for the Firm's capital actions, see Capital actions on page 154.Management's discussion and analysisIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Certain obligations are recognized on-balance sheet, while others are off-balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. The Firm is involved with several types of off&#8211;balance sheet arrangements, including through nonconsolidated special-purpose entities (&#8220;SPEs&#8221;), which are a type of VIE, and through lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees).Special-purpose entitiesThe most common type of VIE is an SPE. SPEs are commonly used in securitization transactions in order to isolate certain assets and distribute the cash flows from those assets to investors. SPEs are an important part of the financial markets, including the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial paper markets, as they provide market liquidity by facilitating investors' access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or corporations and are typically established for a single, discrete purpose. SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a limited life and no employees. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE; the SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.JPMorgan Chase uses SPEs as a source of liquidity for itself and its clients by securitizing financial assets, and by creating investment products for clients. The Firm is involved with SPEs through multi-seller conduits, investor intermediation activities, and loan securitizations. See Note 16 for further information on these types of SPEs.The Firm holds capital, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-related commitments and guarantees.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing. Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Code of Conduct. These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.Implications of a credit rating downgrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. could be required to provide funding if its short-term credit rating were downgraded below specific levels, primarily &#8220;P-1&#8221;, &#8220;A-1&#8221; and &#8220;F1&#8221; for Moody's, Standard & &nbsp;Poor's and Fitch, respectively. These liquidity commitments support the issuance of asset-backed commercial paper by Firm-administered consolidated SPEs. In the event of a short-term credit rating downgrade, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., absent other solutions, would be required to provide funding to the SPE, if the commercial paper could not be reissued as it matured. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper outstanding held by third parties as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, was $12.1 billion&#32;and $15.5 billion, respectively. The aggregate amounts of commercial paper outstanding could increase in future periods should clients of the Firm-administered consolidated SPEs draw down on certain unfunded lending-related commitments. These unfunded lending-related commitments were $9.9 billion&#32;and $9.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively. The Firm could facilitate the refinancing of some of the clients' assets in order to reduce the funding obligation. For further information, see the discussion of Firm-administered multi-seller conduits in Note 16.The Firm also acts as liquidity provider for certain municipal bond vehicles. The Firm's obligation to perform as liquidity provider is conditional and is limited by certain termination events, which include bankruptcy or failure to pay by the municipal bond issuer or credit enhancement provider, an event of taxability on the municipal bonds or the immediate downgrade of the municipal bond to below investment grade. See Note 16 for additional information.Off&#8211;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, guarantees, and other commitmentsJPMorgan Chase&#32;provides lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk to the Firm should the counterparty draw upon the commitment or the Firm be required to fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and should the counterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without being drawn or a default occurring. As a result, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. For further discussion of lending-related financial instruments, guarantees and other commitments, and the Firm's accounting for them, see Lending-related commitments on page 125&#32;and Note 29. For a discussion of liabilities associated with loan sales-and securitization-related indemnifications, see Note 29.Contractual cash obligationsThe accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's significant contractual cash obligations at December&#160;31, 2014. The contractual cash obligations included in the table below reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with terms that are both fixed and determinable. Excluded from the below table are certain liabilities with variable cash flows and/or no obligation to return a stated amount of principal at the maturity.&nbsp;The carrying amount of on-balance sheet obligations on the Consolidated balance sheets may differ from the minimum contractual amount of the obligations reported below. For a discussion of mortgage repurchase liabilities and other obligations, see Note 29.Management's discussion and analysisOperating activitiesJPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilities support the Firm's capital markets and lending activities, including the origination or purchase of loans initially designated as held-for-sale. Operating assets and liabilities can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of cash flows, which are affected by client-driven and risk management activities and market conditions. The Firm believes cash flows from operations, available cash balances and the Firm's ability to generate cash through short- and long-term borrowings are sufficient to fund the Firm's operating liquidity needs.Cash provided by operating activities in 2014 predominantly resulted from net income after noncash operating adjustments and reflected higher net proceeds from loan securitizations and sales activities when compared with 2013. In 2013 cash provided reflected a decrease in trading assets from client-driven market-making activities in CIB, resulting in lower levels of debt securities. Cash used in 2013 for loans originated and purchased with an initial intent to sell was slightly higher than the cash proceeds received from sales and paydowns of loans and reflected significantly higher levels of activities over the prior-year period. Cash provided during 2012 resulted from a decrease in securities borrowed reflecting a shift in the deployment of excess cash to resale agreements as well as lower client activity in CIB; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities predominantly due to lower CIB client balances.&nbsp;Investing activitiesThe Firm's investing activities predominantly include loans originated to be held for investment, the investment securities portfolio and other short-term interest-earning assets. Cash used in investing activities during 2014, 2013, and 2012 resulted from increases in deposits with banks, attributable to higher levels of excess funds; in 2014, cash was used for growth in wholesale and consumer loans, while in 2013 and 2012 cash used reflected growth in wholesale loans. Partially offsetting these cash outflows in 2014 and 2013 was a net decline in securities purchased under resale agreements due to a shift in the deployment of the Firm's excess cash by Treasury, and a net decline in consumer loans in 2013 and 2012 from paydowns and portfolio runoff or liquidation of delinquent loans. In 2012, additional cash was used for securities purchased under resale agreements. All years reflected cash proceeds from net maturities and sales of investment securities.Financing activitiesThe Firm's financing activities includes cash from customer deposits, and cash proceeds from issuing long-term debt, and preferred and common stock. Cash provided by financing activities in 2014 predominantly resulted from higher consumer and wholesale deposits. The increase in consumer deposits reflected a continuing positive growth trend resulting from strong customer retention, maturing of recent branch builds, and net new business. The increase in wholesale deposits was driven by client activity and deposit growth. Cash provided in 2013 was driven by growth in both wholesale and consumer deposits, net proceeds from long-term borrowings, and net issuance of preferred stock; partially offset by a decrease in securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements, predominantly due to changes in the mix of the Firm's funding sources. Cash provided in 2012 was due to growth in both consumer and wholesale deposits and an increase in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under repurchase agreements due to higher secured financings of the Firm's assets. In all periods, cash proceeds were offset by repurchases of common stock and cash dividends on common and preferred stock.* * *For a further discussion of the activities affecting the Firm's cash flows, see Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 72&#8211;73.The Firm prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements using U.S. GAAP; these financial statements appear on pages 172&#8211;176. That presentation, which is referred to as &#8220;reported&#8221; basis, provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's results and the results of the lines of business on a &#8220;managed&#8221; basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The Firm's definition of managed basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results and includes certain reclassifications to present total net revenue for the Firm (and each of the reportable business segments) on a FTE basis. Accordingly, revenue from investments that receive tax credits and tax-exempt securities is presented in the managed results on a basis &nbsp;comparable to taxable investments and securities. This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenue arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to tax-exempt items is recorded within income tax expense. These adjustments have no impact on net income as reported by the Firm as a whole or by the lines of business.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the business-segment level, because it believes these other non-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors about the underlying operational performance and trends of the particular business segment and, therefore, facilitate a comparison of the business segment with the performance of its competitors. Non- GAAP financial measures used by the Firm may not be comparable to similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis.&nbsp;Tangible common equity (&#8220;TCE&#8221;), ROTCE and TBVPS are each non-GAAP financial measures. TCE represents the Firm's common stockholders' equity (i.e., total stockholders' equity less preferred stock) less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets (other than MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. ROTCE measures the Firm's earnings as a percentage of average TCE. TBVPS represents the Firm's TCE at period-end divided by common shares at period-end. TCE, ROTCE, and TBVPS are meaningful to the Firm, as well as investors and analysts, in assessing the Firm's use of equity.Additionally, certain credit and capital metrics and ratios disclosed by the Firm are non-GAAP measures. For additional information on these non-GAAP measures, see Credit Risk Management on pages 110&#8211;111, and Regulatory capital on pages 146&#8211;153.Management's discussion and analysisCore net interest incomeIn addition to reviewing net interest income on a managed basis, management also reviews core net interest income to assess the performance of its core lending, investing (including asset-liability management) and deposit-raising activities. These activities exclude the impact of CIB's market-based activities. The core data presented below are non-GAAP financial measures due to the exclusion of CIB's market-based net interest income and related assets. Management believes this exclusion provides investors and analysts another measure by which to analyze the non-market-related business trends of the Firm and provides a comparable measure to other financial institutions that are primarily focused on core lending, investing and deposit-raising activities.&nbsp;2014&#32;compared with 2013Core net interest income increased by $543 million&#32;in 2014&#32;to $39.1 billion, and core average interest-earning assets increased by $72.8 billion&#32;to $1.5 trillion. The increase in net interest income in 2014&#32;predominantly reflected higher yields on investment securities, the impact of lower interest expense, and higher average loan balances. The increase was partially offset by lower yields on loans due to the run-off of higher-yielding loans and new originations of lower-yielding loans. The increase in average interest-earning assets largely reflected the impact of higher average balance of deposits with banks. These changes in net interest income and interest-earning assets resulted in the core net interest yield decreasing by 9&#32;basis points to 2.54%&#32;for 2014.2013&#32;compared with 2012Core net interest income decreased by $906 million&#32;in 2013&#32;to $38.5 billion, and core average interest-earning assets increased by $122.9 billion&#32;to $1.5 trillion. The decline in net interest income in 2013&#32;primarily reflected the impact of the runoff of higher-yielding loans and originations of lower-yielding loans. The decrease in net interest income was partially offset by lower long-term debt and other funding costs. The increase in average interest-earning assets reflected the impact of higher deposits with banks. The core net interest yield decreased by 31&#32;basis points to 2.63%&#32;in 2013, primarily reflecting the impact of a significant increase in deposits with banks and lower loan yields, partially offset by the impact of lower long-term debt yields and deposit rates.The Firm is managed on a line of business basis. There are four major reportable business segments &#8211; Consumer & Community Banking, Corporate & Investment Bank, Commercial Banking and Asset Management. In addition, there is a Corporate segment.&nbsp;The business segments are determined based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and they reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these lines of business are presented on a managed basis. For a definition of managed basis, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAP financial measures, on pages 77&#8211;78.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives business segment results allocates income and expense using market-based methodologies. The Firm continues to assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, and further refinements may be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, the participating business segments agree to share revenue from those transactions. The segment results reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business and transfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to the Treasury group within Corporate. The allocation process is unique to each business segment and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements of that segment as if it were operating independently, and as compared with its stand-alone peers. This process is overseen by senior management and reviewed by the Firm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;).&nbsp;Preferred stock dividend allocation reporting changeAs part of its funds transfer pricing process, the Firm allocates substantially all of the cost of its outstanding preferred stock to its reportable business segments, while retaining the balance of the cost in Corporate. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2014, this cost was allocated to the Firm's reportable business segments as interest expense, with an offset recorded as interest income in Corporate. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2014, this cost is no longer included in interest income and interest expense in the segments, but rather is now included in net income applicable to common equity to be consistent with the presentation of firmwide results. As a result of this reporting change, net interest income and net income in the reportable business segments increases; however, there was no impact to the segments' return on common equity (&#8220;ROE&#8221;). The Firm's net interest income, net income, Consolidated balance sheets and consolidated results of operations were not impacted by this reporting change, as preferred stock dividends have been and continue to be distributed from retained earnings and, accordingly, were never reported as a component of the Firm's consolidated net interest income or net income. Prior period segment and core net interest income amounts throughout this Annual Report have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.Management's discussion and analysisThe following chart depicts how preferred stock dividends were allocated to the business segments before and after the aforementioned methodology change.&nbsp;Business segment capital allocation changesEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons, regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In) and economic risk measures. The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to as equity. On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented.&#32;For further information about these capital changes, see Line of business equity on page 153.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, or another business segment, the costs of those services are allocated to the respective business segments. The expense is generally allocated based on actual cost and upon usage of the services provided. In contrast, certain other expense related to certain corporate functions, or to certain technology and operations, are not allocated to the business segments and are retained in Corporate. Retained expense includes: parent company costs that would not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certain corporate staff, technology and operations allocations with market prices; and other items not aligned with a particular business segment.Segment Results &#8211; Managed Basis(a)&#160;The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated.Note: As discussed on pages 79&#8211;80, effective with the fourth quarter of 2014 the Firm changed its methodology for allocating the cost of preferred stock to its reportable business segments. Prior periods have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.&nbsp;Note: In the discussion and the tables which follow, CCB presents certain financial measures which exclude the impact of PCI loans; these are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information, see Explanation and Reconciliation of the Firm's Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures.2014 compared with 2013Consumer & Community Banking net income was $9.2 billion, a decrease of $1.9 billion, or 17%, compared with the prior year, due to higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.Net revenue was $44.4 billion, a decrease of $2.2 billion, or 5%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $28.4 billion, down $554 million, or 2%, driven by spread compression and lower mortgage warehouse balances, largely offset by higher deposit balances in Consumer & Business Banking and higher loan balances in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $16.0 billion, a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 9%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was $3.5 billion, compared with $335 million in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $1.3 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $4.8 billion. The prior-year provision reflected a $5.5 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $5.8 billion. For more information, including net charge-off amounts and rates, see Consumer Credit Portfolio.Noninterest expense was $25.6 billion, a decrease of $2.2 billion, or 8%, from the prior year, driven by lower Mortgage Banking expense.2013 compared with 2012Consumer & Community Banking net income was $11.1 billion, an increase of $270 million, or 3%, compared with the prior year, due to lower provision for credit losses and lower noninterest expense, predominantly offset by lower net revenue.Net revenue was $46.5 billion, a decrease of $3.7 billion, or 7%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $29.0 billion, down $480 million, or 2%, driven by lower deposit margins, lower loan balances due to net portfolio runoff and spread compression in Credit Card, largely offset by higher deposit balances. Noninterest revenue was $17.6 billion, a decrease of $3.3 billion, or 16%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income, partially offset by higher card income.The provision for credit losses was $335 million, compared with $3.8 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $5.5 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $5.8 billion. The prior-year provision reflected a $5.5 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses and total net charge-offs of $9.3 billion, including $800 million of incremental charge-offs related to regulatory guidance. For more information, including net charge-off amounts and rates, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113&#8211;119.Management's discussion and analysisNoninterest expense was $27.8 billion, a decrease of $985 million, or 3%, from the prior year, driven by lower mortgage servicing expense, partially offset by investments in Chase Private Client expansion, higher non-MBS related legal expense in Mortgage Production, higher auto lease depreciation, and costs related to the control agenda.&nbsp;Consumer & Business Banking2014 compared with 2013Consumer & Business Banking net income was $3.4 billion, an increase of $500 million, or 17%, compared with the prior year, due to higher net revenue.Net revenue was $18.2 billion, up 5% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $11.1 billion, up $384 million, or 4% compared with the prior year, driven by higher deposit balances, largely offset by deposit spread compression. Noninterest revenue was $7.2 billion, up $430 million, or 6%, driven by higher investment revenue, reflecting record client investment assets, higher debit card revenue, reflecting an increase in transaction volume, and higher deposit-related fees as a result of an increase in customer accounts.Noninterest expense was $12.1 billion, flat from the prior year, reflecting lower costs driven by efficiencies implemented in the business, offset by the increased cost of controls.2013 compared with 2012Consumer & Business Banking&#32;net income was $2.9 billion, a decrease of $281 million, or 9%, compared with the prior year, due to higher noninterest expense, partially offset by higher noninterest revenue.Net revenue was $17.4 billion, up 1% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $10.7 billion, flat compared with the prior year, driven by higher deposit balances, offset by lower deposit margin. Noninterest revenue was $6.7 billion, an increase of 3%, driven by higher investment sales revenue and debit card revenue, partially offset by lower deposit-related fees.&nbsp;Noninterest expense was $12.2 billion, up 6% from the prior year, reflecting continued investments in the business, and costs related to the control agenda.(a) Includes checking accounts and Chase Liquid&#174; cards.Management's discussion and analysisMortgage Banking2014 compared with 2013Mortgage Banking net income was $1.7 billion, a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 48%, from the prior year, driven by a lower benefit from the provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense.Net revenue was $7.8 billion, a decrease of $2.4 billion, or 24%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.2 billion, a decrease of $529 million, or 11%, driven by spread compression and lower loan balances due to portfolio runoff and lower warehouse balances. Noninterest revenue was $3.6 billion, a decrease of $1.9 billion, or 34%, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $217 million, compared with a benefit of $2.7 billion in the prior year. The current year reflected a $700 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies. The prior year included a $3.8 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses. Net charge-offs were $483 million, compared with $1.1 billion in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $5.3 billion, a decrease of $2.3 billion, or 30%, from the prior year, due to lower expense in production and servicing reflecting lower headcount-related expense, the absence of non-MBS related legal expense and lower expense on foreclosure-related matters.&nbsp;2013 compared with 2012Mortgage Banking&#32;net income was $3.2 billion, a decrease of $257 million, or 7%, compared with the prior year, driven by lower net revenue, predominantly offset by a higher benefit from the provision for credit losses and lower noninterest expense.Net revenue was $10.2 billion, a decrease of $3.9 billion, or 28%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.8 billion, a decrease of $258 million, or 5%, driven by lower loan balances due to net portfolio runoff. Noninterest revenue was $5.5 billion, a decrease of $3.7 billion, driven by lower mortgage fees and related income.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $2.7 billion, compared with a benefit of $490 million in the prior year. The current year reflected a $3.8 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies. The prior year included a $3.9 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses.Noninterest expense was $7.6 billion, a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 17%, from the prior year, due to lower servicing expense, partially offset by higher non-MBS related legal expense in Mortgage Production.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013Mortgage Production&#32;pretax income was $294 million, a decrease of $557 million, or 65%, from the prior year, reflecting lower revenue, largely offset by lower expense and higher benefit from repurchase losses. Mortgage production-related revenue, excluding repurchase losses, was $1.5 billion, a decrease of $2.1 billion, from the prior year, driven by lower volumes due to higher levels of mortgage interest rates and tighter margins. Production expense was $1.6 billion, a decrease of $1.4 billion, or 47%, from the prior year, driven by lower headcount-related expense and the absence of non-MBS related legal expense.Mortgage Servicing&#32;pretax income was $404 million, compared with a loss of $338 million in the prior year, reflecting lower expenses and lower MSR risk management loss, partially offset by lower net revenue. Mortgage net servicing-related revenue was $2.7 billion, a decrease of $200 million, or 7%, from the prior year, driven by lower average third-party loans serviced and lower revenue from an exited non-core product, partially offset by lower MSR asset amortization expense as a result of lower MSR asset value. MSR risk management was a loss of $28 million, compared with a loss of $268 million in the prior year. See Note 17 for further information regarding changes in value of the MSR asset and related hedges. Servicing expense was $2.3 billion, a decrease of $702 million, or 24%, from the prior year, reflecting lower headcount-related expense and lower expense for foreclosure related matters.Real Estate Portfolios&#32;pretax income was $2.1 billion, down $2.7 billion, or 57%, from the prior year, due to a lower benefit from the provision for credit losses and lower net revenue, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net revenue was $3.2 billion, a decrease of $451 million, or 12%, from the prior year, driven by lower net interest income as a result of spread compression and lower loan balances due to portfolio runoff. The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $223 million, compared with a benefit of $2.7 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $700 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, $400 million from the non credit-impaired allowance and $300 million from the purchased credit-impaired allowance, due to continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies. The prior-year provision reflected a $3.8 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses, $2.3 billion from the non credit-impaired allowance and $1.5 billion from the purchased credit-impaired allowance. Net charge-offs were $477 million, compared with $1.1 billion in the prior year. See Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113&#8211;119&#32;for the net charge-off amounts and rates. Noninterest expense was $1.4 billion, a decrease of $180 million, or 12%, compared with the prior year, driven by lower FDIC-related expense and lower foreclosed asset expense due to lower foreclosure inventory.Management's discussion and analysis2013 compared with 2012Mortgage Production&#32;pretax income was $851 million, a decrease of $2.7 billion from the prior year, reflecting lower margins, lower volumes and higher legal expense, partially offset by a benefit in repurchase losses. Production-related revenue, excluding repurchase losses, was $3.6 billion, a decrease of $3.0 billion, or 45%, from the prior year, largely reflecting lower margins and lower volumes from rising rates. Production expense was $3.1 billion, an increase of $341 million, or 12%, from the prior year, due to higher non-MBS related legal expense and higher compensation-related expense. Repurchase losses for the current year reflected a benefit of $331 million, compared with repurchase losses of $272 million in the prior year. The current year reflected a reduction in the repurchase liability largely as a result of the settlement with the GSEs.Mortgage Servicing&#32;pretax loss was $338 million, compared with a pretax loss of $1.1 billion in the prior year, driven by lower expense, partially offset by a MSR risk management loss. Mortgage net servicing-related revenue was $2.9 billion, a decrease of $78 million. MSR risk management was a loss of $268 million, compared with income of $616 million in the prior year, driven by the net impact of various changes in model inputs and assumptions. See Note 17 for further information regarding changes in value of the MSR asset and related hedges. Servicing expense was $3.0 billion, a decrease of $1.8 billion, or 37%, from the prior year, reflecting lower costs associated with the Independent Foreclosure Review and lower servicing headcount.Real Estate Portfolios&#32;pretax income was $4.8 billion, up $1.7 billion from the prior year, or 54%, due to a higher benefit from the provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower net revenue. Net revenue was $3.7 billion, a decrease of $602 million, or 14%, from the prior year. This decrease was due to lower net interest income, resulting from lower loan balances due to net portfolio runoff, and lower noninterest revenue due to higher loan retention. The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $2.7 billion, compared with a benefit of $509 million in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected a $3.8 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses, $2.3 billion from the non credit-impaired allowance and $1.5 billion from the purchased credit-impaired allowance, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies. The prior-year provision included a $3.9 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses from the non credit-impaired allowance. Net charge-offs were $1.1 billion, compared with $3.3 billion in the prior year. Prior-year total net charge-offs included $744 million of incremental charge-offs reported in accordance with regulatory guidance on certain loans discharged under Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Noninterest expense was $1.6 billion, a decrease of $100 million, or 6%, compared with the prior year, driven by lower foreclosed asset expense due to lower foreclosure inventory, largely offset by higher FDIC-related expense.&nbsp;&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Mortgage servicing-related mattersThe financial crisis resulted in unprecedented levels of delinquencies and defaults of 1-4 family residential real estate loans. Such loans required varying degrees of loss mitigation activities. Foreclosure is usually a last resort, and accordingly, the Firm has made, and continues to make, significant efforts to help borrowers remain in their homes.The Firm has entered into various Consent Orders and settlements with federal and state governmental agencies and private parties related to mortgage servicing, origination, and residential mortgage-backed securities activities. The requirements of these Consent Orders and settlements vary, but in the aggregate, include cash compensatory payments (in addition to fines) and/or &#8220;borrower relief,&#8221; which may include principal reduction, refinancing, short sale assistance, and other specified types of borrower relief. Other obligations required under certain Consent Orders and settlements, as well as under new regulatory requirements, include enhanced mortgage servicing and foreclosure standards and processes. The Firm has satisfied or is committed to satisfying these obligations within the mandated timeframes.The mortgage servicing Consent Orders and settlements are subject to ongoing oversight by the Mortgage Compliance Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors. In addition, certain of the Consent Orders and settlements are the subject of ongoing reporting to various regulators and independent overseers.The Firm's compliance with the Global Settlement and the RMBS Settlement are detailed in periodic reports published by the independent overseers.Card, Merchant Services & Auto2014 compared with 2013Card net income was $4.1 billion, a decrease of $833 million, or 17%, compared with the prior year, predominantly driven by higher provision for credit losses and lower net revenue.Net revenue was $18.3 billion, down $573 million or 3% compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $13.2 billion, a decrease of $409 million, or 3%, from the prior year primarily driven by spread compression in Credit Card and Auto, partially offset by higher average loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $5.2 billion, down $164 million, or 3%, from the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by higher amortization of new account origination costs and the impact of non-core portfolio exits, largely offset by higher auto lease income and net interchange income from higher sales volume.The provision for credit losses was $3.4 billion, compared with $2.7 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a $554 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The reduction in the allowance for loan losses was primarily related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in TDRs, runoff in the student loan portfolio, and lower estimated losses in auto loans. The prior-year provision included a $1.7 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses.&nbsp;Noninterest expense was $8.2 billion, up $98 million, or 1% from the prior year primarily driven by higher auto lease depreciation expense and higher investment in controls, predominantly offset by lower intangible amortization and lower remediation costs.2013 compared with 2012Card net income was $4.9 billion, an increase of $808 million, or 20%, compared with the prior year, driven by lower provision for credit losses.Net revenue was $18.9 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $13.6 billion, down $261 million, or 2%, from the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by spread compression in Credit Card and Auto and lower average credit card loan balances, largely offset by the impact of lower revenue reversals associated with lower net charge-offs in Credit Card. Noninterest revenue was $5.3 billion, an increase of $229 million, or 4%, compared with the prior year primarily driven by higher net interchange income, auto lease income and merchant servicing revenue, largely offset by lower revenue from an exited non-core product and a gain on an investment security recognized in the prior year.The provision for credit losses was $2.7 billion, compared with $4.0 billion in the prior year. The current-year provision reflected lower net charge-offs and a $1.7 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses due to lower estimated losses reflecting improved delinquency trends and restructured loan performance. The prior-year provision included a $1.6 billion reduction in the allowance for loan losses. The Credit Card net charge-off rate was 3.14%, down from 3.95% in the prior year; and the 30+ day delinquency rate was 1.67%, down from 2.10% in the prior year. The Auto net charge-off rate was 0.31%, down from 0.39% in the prior year.Noninterest expense was $8.1 billion, a decrease of $138 million, or 2%, from the prior year. This decrease was due to one-time expense items recognized in the prior year related to the exit of a non-core product and the write-off of intangible assets associated with a non-strategic relationship. The reduction in expenses was partially offset by increased auto lease depreciation and payments to customers required by a regulatory Consent Order during 2013.Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisNote: As discussed on pages 79&#8211;80, effective with the fourth quarter of 2014 the Firm changed its methodology for allocating the cost of preferred stock to its reportable business segments. Prior periods have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.&nbsp;Prior to January 1, 2014, CIB provided several non-GAAP financial measures excluding the impact of implementing the FVA framework (effective 2013) and DVA on: net revenue, net income, compensation ratio, overhead ratio, and return on equity. Beginning in the first quarter 2014, the Firm did not exclude FVA and DVA from its assessment of business performance; however, the Firm continues to present these non-GAAP measures for the periods prior to January 1, 2014, as they reflected how management assessed the underlying business performance of the CIB in those prior periods. In addition, the ratio for the allowance for loan losses to end-of-period loans, also a non-GAAP financial measure, is calculated excluding the impact of consolidated Firm-administered multi-seller conduits and trade finance, to provide a more meaningful assessment of CIB's allowance coverage ratio. These measures are used by management to assess the underlying performance of the business and for comparability with peers.2014 compared with 2013 Net income was $6.9 billion, down 22% compared with $8.9 billion in the prior year. These results primarily reflected lower revenue as well as higher noninterest expense. Net revenue was $34.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year.Banking revenue was $11.8 billion, down 3% from the prior year. Investment banking fees were $6.6 billion, up 4% from the prior year. The increase was driven by higher advisory and equity underwriting fees, partially offset by lower debt underwriting fees. Advisory fees were $1.6 billion up 24% on stronger share of fees for completed transactions as well as growth in the industry-wide fee levels, according to Dealogic. Equity underwriting fees were $1.6 billion up 5%, driven by higher industry wide issuance. Debt underwriting fees were $3.4 billion, down 4%, primarily related to lower loan syndication fees on lower industry-wide fee levels and lower bond underwriting fees. The Firm also ranked #1 globally in fees and volumes share across high grade, high yield and loan products. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking for M&A, and improved share of fees both globally and in the U.S. compared to the prior year. Treasury Services revenue was $4.1 billion, down 1% compared with the prior year, primarily driven by lower trade finance revenue as well as the impact of business simplification initiatives, largely offset by higher net interest income from increased deposits. Lending revenue was $1.1 billion, down from $1.7 billion in the prior year, driven by losses, compared with gains in the prior periods, on securities received from restructured loans, as well as lower net interest income.Markets & Investor Services revenue was $22.8 billion, up 1% from the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $13.8 billion down 13% from the prior year driven by lower revenues in Fixed Income primarily from credit-related and rates products as well as the impact of business simplification. Equity Markets revenue was $4.9 billion up 1% as higher prime services revenue was partially offset by lower equity derivatives revenue. Securities Services revenue was $4.4 billion, up 6% from the prior year, primarily driven by higher net interest income on increased deposits and higher fees and commissions. Credit Adjustments & Other revenue was a loss of $272 million driven by net CVA losses partially offset by gains, net of hedges, related to FVA/DVA. The prior year was a loss of $2.1 billion (including the FVA implementation loss of $1.5 billion and DVA losses of $452 million).Noninterest expense was $23.3 billion, up 7% compared to the prior year as a result of higher legal expense and investment in controls. This was partially offset by lower performance-based compensation expense as well as the impact of business simplification, including the sale or liquidation of a significant part of the physical commodities &nbsp;business. The compensation expense to net revenue ratio was 30%.Return on equity was 10% on $61.0&#160;billion of average allocated capital.2013 compared with 2012 Net income was $8.9 billion, up 2% compared with the prior year.Net revenue was $34.8 billion, flat compared with the prior year. Net revenue in 2013 included a $1.5 billion loss as a result of implementing a FVA framework for OTC derivatives and structured notes. The FVA framework incorporates the impact of funding into the Firm's valuation estimates for OTC derivatives and structured notes and reflects an industry migration towards incorporating the market cost of unsecured funding in the valuation of such instruments. The loss recorded in 2013 was a one-time adjustment arising on implementation of the new FVA framework.Net revenue in 2013 also included a $452 million loss from DVA on structured notes and derivative liabilities, compared with a loss of $930 million in the prior year. Excluding the impact of FVA and DVA, net revenue was $36.7 billion and net income was $10.1 billion, compared with $35.7 billion and $9.2 billion, respectively in the prior year.Banking revenue was $12.2 billion, compared with $11.4 billion in the prior year. Investment banking fees were $6.3 billion, up 10% from the prior year, driven by higher equity underwriting fees of $1.5 billion (up 46%) and record debt underwriting fees of $3.5 billion (up 8%), partially offset by lower advisory fees of $1.3 billion (down 12%). Equity underwriting results were driven by higher industry-wide issuance and an increase in share of fees compared with the prior year, according to Dealogic. Industry-wide loan syndication volumes and fees increased as the low-rate environment continued to fuel refinancing activity. The Firm also ranked #1 in industry-wide fee shares across high grade, high yield and loan products. Advisory fees were lower compared with the prior year as industry-wide completed M&A industry-wide fee levels declined 13%. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking and improved share for both announced and completed volumes during the year.Treasury Services revenue was $4.2 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year, primarily reflecting lower trade finance spreads, partially offset by higher net interest income on higher deposit balances. Lending revenue was $1.7 billion, up from $1.4 billion, in the prior year reflecting net interest income on retained loans, fees on lending-related commitments, and gains on securities received from restructured loans.Markets and Investor Services revenue was $22.6 billion compared to $23.4 billion in the prior year. Combined Fixed Income and Equity Markets revenue was $20.6 billion, up from $20.1 billion the prior year. Fixed Income Markets revenue was $15.8 billion slightly higher reflecting consistently strong client revenue and lower losses from the synthetic credit portfolio, which was partially offset by lower rates-related revenue given an uncertain rate outlook and low spread environment. Equities Markets revenue was Management's discussion and analysis$4.8 billion up 8% compared with the prior year driven by higher revenue in derivatives and cash equities products and Prime Services primarily on higher balances. Securities Services revenue was $4.1 billion compared with $4.0 billion in the prior year on higher custody and fund services revenue primarily driven by higher assets under custody of $20.5 trillion. Credit Adjustments & Other was a loss of $2.1 billion predominantly driven by FVA (effective 2013) and DVA.The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $232 million, compared with a benefit of $479 million in the prior year. The 2013 benefit reflected lower recoveries as compared with 2012 as the prior year benefited from the restructuring of certain nonperforming loans. Net recoveries were $78 million, compared with $284 million in the prior year reflecting a continued favorable credit environment with stable credit quality trends. Nonperforming loans were down 57% from the prior year.Noninterest expense was $21.7 billion slightly down compared with the prior year, driven by lower compensation expense, offset by higher noncompensation expense related to higher litigation expense as compared with the prior year. The compensation ratio, excluding the impact of DVA and FVA (effective 2013), was 30% and 32% for 2013 and 2012, respectively.Return on equity was 15% on $56.5 billion of average allocated capital and 17% excluding FVA (effective 2013) and DVA.&nbsp;&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisNote: As discussed on pages 79&#8211;80, effective with the fourth quarter of 2014 the Firm changed its methodology for allocating the cost of preferred stock to its reportable business segments. Prior periods have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.&nbsp;2014&#32;compared with 2013Net income was $2.6 billion, flat compared with the prior year, reflecting lower net revenue and higher noninterest expense, predominantly offset by a lower provision for credit losses.Net revenue was $6.9 billion, a decrease of $210 million, or 3%, compared with the prior year. Net interest income was $4.5 billion, a decrease of $261 million, or 5%, reflecting yield compression, the absence of proceeds received in the prior year from a lending-related workout, and lower purchase discounts recognized on loan repayments, partially offset by higher loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, up $51 million, or 2%, reflecting higher investment banking revenue largely offset by business simplification and lower lending fees.Noninterest expense was $2.7 billion, an increase of $85 million, or 3%, from the prior year, largely reflecting higher investments in controls.2013&#32;compared with 2012Net income was $2.6 billion, a decrease of $51 million, or 2%, from the prior year, driven by an increase in noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses, partially offset by an increase in net revenue.Net revenue was a record $7.1 billion, an increase of $180 million, or 3%, from the prior year. Net interest income was $4.8 billion, up by $165 million, or 4%, driven by higher loan balances and proceeds from a lending-related workout, partially offset by lower purchase discounts recognized on loan repayments. Noninterest revenue was $2.3 billion, flat compared with the prior year.Noninterest expense was $2.6 billion, an increase of $221 million, or 9%, from the prior year, reflecting higher product- and headcount-related expense.Management's discussion and analysis&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisNote: As discussed on pages 79&#8211;80, effective with the fourth quarter of 2014 the Firm changed its methodology for allocating the cost of preferred stock to its reportable business segments. Prior periods have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.&nbsp;2014&#32;compared with 2013Net income was $2.2 billion, an increase of $70 million, or 3%, from the prior year, reflecting higher net revenue and lower provision for credit losses, predominantly offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $12.0 billion, an increase of $623 million, or 5%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $9.6 billion, up $559 million, or 6%, from the prior year, due to net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital investments. Net interest income was $2.4 billion, up $64 million, or 3%, from the prior year, due to higher loan and deposit balances, largely offset by spread compression.Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.3 billion, up 6% due to net client inflows and the effect of higher market levels, partially offset by lower valuations of seed capital investments. Revenue from Global Wealth Management was $5.7 billion, up 5% from the prior year due to higher net interest income from loan and deposit balances and net client inflows, partially offset by spread compression and lower brokerage revenue.Noninterest expense was $8.5 billion, an increase of $522 million, or 7%, from the prior year, as the business continues to invest in both infrastructure and controls.2013&#32;compared with 2012Net income was $2.1 billion, an increase of $341 million, or 20%, from the prior year, reflecting higher net revenue, largely offset by higher noninterest expense.Net revenue was $11.4 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 14%, from the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $9.0 billion, up $1.2 billion, or 15%, from the prior year, due to net client inflows, the effect of higher market levels and higher performance fees. Net interest income was $2.4 billion, up $213 million, or 10%, from the prior year, due to higher loan and deposit balances, partially offset by narrower loan and deposit spreads.Revenue from Global Investment Management was $6.0 billion, up 16% due to net client inflows, the effect of higher market levels and higher performance fees. Revenue from Global Wealth Management was $5.5 billion, up 12% from the prior year due to higher net interest income from loan and deposit balances and higher brokerage revenue.Noninterest expense was $8.0 billion, an increase of $912 million, or 13%, from the prior year, primarily due to higher headcount-related expense driven by continued front office expansion efforts, higher performance-based compensation and costs related to the control agenda.&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisClient assets2014&#32;compared with 2013Client assets were $2.4 trillion, an increase of $44 billion, or 2%, compared with the prior year. Excluding the sale of Retirement Plan Services, client assets were up 8% compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.7 trillion, an increase of $146 billion, or 9%, from the prior year, due to net inflows to long-term products and the effect of higher market levels.2013&#32;compared with 2012Client assets were $2.3 trillion at December 31, 2013, an increase of $248 billion, or 12%, compared with the prior year. Assets under management were $1.6 trillion, an increase of $172 billion, or 12%, from the prior year, due to net inflows to long-term products and the effect of higher market levels. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposit balances were $745 billion, up $76 billion, or 11%, from the prior year, due to the effect of higher market levels and custody inflows, partially offset by brokerage outflows.&nbsp;Note: As discussed on pages 79&#8211;80, effective with the fourth quarter of 2014 the Firm changed its methodology for allocating the cost of preferred stock to its reportable business segments. Prior periods have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.&nbsp;2014 compared with 2013Net income was $864 million, compared with a net loss of $6.8 billion in the prior year.Private Equity reported net income of $400 million, compared with net income of $285 million in the prior year, primarily due to higher net gains on sales, largely offset by higher noninterest expense related to goodwill impairment.Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $1.2 billion, compared with a net loss of $1.5 billion in the prior year. Net revenue was a loss of $1.3 billion, compared with a loss of $2.1 billion in the prior year. Current year net interest income was a loss of $1.7 billion compared with a loss of $2.7 billion in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher yields on investment securities. Securities gains were $71 million, compared to $659 million in the prior year, reflecting lower repositioning activity of the investment securities portfolio in the current period.Other Corporate reported net income of $1.6 billion, compared with a net loss of $5.6 billion in the prior year. Current year noninterest revenue was $353 million compared with $1.8 billion in the prior year. Prior year noninterest revenue included gains of $1.3 billion and $493 million on the sales of Visa shares and One Chase Manhattan Plaza, respectively. The current year included $821 million of legal expense, compared with $10.2 billion, which included reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings, in the prior year.2013 compared with 2012Net loss was $6.8 billion, compared with a net loss of $2.6 billion in the prior year.Private Equity reported net income of $285 million, compared with net income of $319 million in the prior year. Net revenue was of $589 million, compared with $645 million in the prior year.Treasury and CIO reported a net loss of $1.5 billion, compared with a net loss of $2.7 billion in the prior year. Net revenue was a loss of $2.1 billion, compared with a loss of $4.1 billion in the prior year. Net revenue in 2013 included $659 million of net securities gains from sales of available-for-sale investment securities, compared with securities gains of $2.0 billion; and $888 million of pretax extinguishment gains related to the redemption of trust preferred securities in the prior year. The extinguishment gains were related to adjustments applied to the cost basis of the trust preferred securities during the period they were in a qualified hedge accounting relationship. The prior year loss also reflected $5.8 billion of losses incurred by CIO from the synthetic credit portfolio for the six months ended June 30, 2012, and $449 million of losses from the retained index credit derivative positions for the three Management's discussion and analysismonths ended September 30, 2012. Net interest income in 2013 was a loss of $2.7 billion compared with a loss of $1.7 billion in the prior year, primarily due to low interest rates and limited reinvestment opportunities. Net interest income improved in the fourth quarter of 2013 due to higher interest rates and better reinvestment opportunities.Other Corporate reported a net loss of $5.6 billion, compared with a net loss of $221 million in the prior year. Noninterest revenue in 2013 was $1.8 billion, down 2% compared with the prior year. In 2013, noninterest revenue included gains of $1.3 billion and $493 million on the sales of Visa shares and One Chase Manhattan Plaza, respectively. Noninterest revenue in the prior year included a $1.1 billion benefit for the Washington Mutual bankruptcy settlement and a $665 million gain from the recovery on a Bear Stearns-related subordinated loan. Noninterest expense of $9.7 billion was up $5.9 billion compared with the prior year. Included in 2013 noninterest expense was $10.2 billion of legal expense, including reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings, compared with $3.7 billion of expense for additional litigation reserves, largely for mortgage-related matters, in the prior year.Treasury and&#32;CIO&#32;overviewTreasury and CIO are predominantly responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm's liquidity, funding and structural interest rate and foreign exchange risks,&#32;as well as executing the Firm's capital plan. The risks managed by Treasury and CIO arise from the activities undertaken by the Firm's four major reportable business segments to serve their respective client bases, which generate both on- and off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.Treasury and CIO achieve the Firm's asset-liability management objectives generally by investing in high-quality securities that are managed for the longer-term as part of the Firm's investment securities portfolio. Treasury and CIO also use derivatives to meet the Firm's asset-liability management objectives. For further information on derivatives, see Note 6. The investment securities portfolio primarily consists of U.S. and non-U.S. government securities, agency and nonagency mortgage-backed securities, other asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities and obligations of U.S. states and municipalities. At December&#160;31, 2014, the investment securities portfolio was $343.1 billion, and the average credit rating of the securities comprising the portfolio was AA+ (based upon external ratings where available and where not available, based primarily upon internal ratings that correspond to ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's). See Note 12 for further information on the details of the Firm's investment securities portfolio.For further information on liquidity and funding risk, see Liquidity Risk Management on&#32;pages 156&#8211;160. For information on interest rate, foreign exchange and other risks, Treasury and CIO Value-at-risk (&#8220;VaR&#8221;) and the Firm's structural interest rate-sensitive revenue at risk, see Market Risk Management on&#32;pages 131&#8211;136.&nbsp;Private Equity portfolio2014 compared with 2013The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 2014 was $5.9 billion, down from $7.9 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease in the portfolio was predominantly driven by sales of investments, partially offset by unrealized gains.2013 compared with 2012The carrying value of the private equity portfolio at December 31, 2013 was $7.9 billion, down from $8.1 billion at December 31, 2012. The decrease in the portfolio was predominantly driven by sales of investments, partially offset by new investments and unrealized gains.Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. When the Firm extends a consumer or wholesale loan, advises customers on their investment decisions, makes markets in securities, or conducts any number of other services or activities, the Firm takes on some degree of risk. The Firm's overall objective in managing risk is to protect the safety and soundness of the Firm, avoid excessive risk taking, and manage and balance risk in a manner that serves the interest of our clients, customers and shareholders.The Firm's approach to risk management covers a broad spectrum of risk areas, such as credit, market, liquidity, model, structural interest rate, principal, country, operational, fiduciary and reputation risk.The Firm believes that effective risk management requires:&nbsp;Firmwide Risk Management is overseen and managed on an enterprise-wide basis. The Firm's Chief Executive Officer (&#8220;CEO&#8221;), Chief Financial Officer (&#8220;CFO&#8221;), Chief Risk Officer (&#8220;CRO&#8221;) and Chief Operating Officer (&#8220;COO&#8221;) develop and set the risk management framework and governance structure for the Firm, which is intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in the Firm's business activities. The Firm's risk management framework is intended to create a culture of transparency, awareness and personal responsibility through reporting, collaboration, discussion, escalation and sharing of information. The CEO, CFO, CRO and COO are ultimately responsible and accountable to the Firm's Board of Directors.The Firm's risk culture strives for continual improvement through ongoing employee training and development, as well as talent retention. The Firm also approaches its incentive compensation arrangements through an integrated risk, compensation and financial management framework to encourage a culture of risk awareness and personal accountability. Management's discussion and analysisThe following sections outline the key risks that are inherent in the Firm's business activities.Risk organizationThe LOBs are responsible for managing the risks inherent in their respective business activities. The Risk organization operates independently from the revenue-generating businesses, providing a credible challenge to them. The CRO is the head of the Risk organization and is responsible for the overall direction of Risk oversight. The CRO is supported by individuals and organizations that align to lines of business and corporate functions, as well as others that align to specific risk types. &nbsp;The Firm's Risk Management Organization and other Firmwide functions with risk-related responsibilities (i.e., Regulatory Capital Management Office (&#8220;RCMO&#8221;), Firmwide Oversight and Control Group, Valuation Control Group (&#8220;VCG&#8221;), Legal and Compliance) provide independent oversight of the monitoring, evaluation and escalation of risk. Risk governanceThe independent stature of the Risk organization is supported by a governance structure that provides for escalation of risk issues up to senior management and the Board of Directors.The chart below illustrates the governance structure and certain senior management level committees and forums that are primarily responsible for key risk-related functions. There are additional committees and forums not represented in the chart that are also responsible for management and oversight of risk.The Board of Directors provides oversight of risk principally through the Board of Directors' Risk Policy Committee (&#8220;DRPC&#8221;), Audit Committee and, with respect to compensation, Compensation & Management Development Committee. Each committee of the Board oversees reputation risk issues within its scope of responsibility.The Directors' Risk Policy Committee approves and periodically reviews the primary risk-management policies of the Firm's global operations and oversees the operation of the Firm's global risk management framework. The committee's responsibilities include oversight of management's exercise of its responsibility to assess and manage: (i) credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, model risk, structural interest rate risk, principal risk and country risk; (ii) the governance frameworks or policies for operational, fiduciary, reputational risks and the New Business Initiative Approval (&#8220;NBIA&#8221;) process; and (iii) capital and liquidity planning and analysis. The DRPC &nbsp;reviews the firmwide value-at-risk and market stress tolerances, as well as any other parameter tolerances established by management in accordance with the Firm's Risk Appetite Policy. It reviews reports of significant issues identified by risk management officers, including reports describing the Firm's credit risk profile, and information about concentrations and country risks. The Firm's CRO, LOB CROs, LOB CEOs, heads of risk for Country Risk, Market Risk, Structural Interest Rate Risk, Liquidity Risk, Principal Risk, Wholesale Credit Risk, Consumer Credit Risk, Model Risk, Risk Management Policy, Reputation Risk Governance, Fiduciary Risk Governance, and Operational Risk Governance (all referred to as Firmwide Risk Executives) meet with and provide updates to the DRPC. Additionally, breaches in risk appetite tolerances, liquidity issues that may have a material adverse impact on the Firm and other significant matters as determined by the CRO or Firmwide functions with risk responsibility are escalated to the DRPC.Management's discussion and analysisThe Audit Committee&#32;has primary responsibility for assisting the Board in its oversight of the system of controls&#160;designed to reasonably assure the quality and integrity of the Firm's financial statements and that are relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of the Firm's management of operational risk. The Audit Committee also assists the Board in its oversight of legal and compliance risk. Internal Audit, an independent function within the Firm that provides independent and objective assessments of the control environment, reports directly to the Audit Committee and administratively to the CEO. Internal Audit conducts independent reviews to&#32;evaluate the Firm's internal control structure and compliance with applicable regulatory requirements and is responsible for providing the Audit Committee, senior management and regulators with an independent assessment of the Firm's ability to manage and control risk.The Compensation & Management Development Committee&#32;assists the Board in its oversight of the Firm's compensation programs and reviews and approves the Firm's overall compensation philosophy and practices. The Committee reviews the Firm's compensation practices as they relate to risk and risk management in light of the Firm's objectives, including its safety and soundness and the avoidance of practices that encourage excessive risk taking. The Committee reviews and approves the terms of compensation award programs, including recovery provisions, vesting periods, and restrictive covenants, taking into account regulatory requirements. The Committee also reviews and approves the Firm's overall incentive compensation pools and reviews those of each of the Firm's lines of business and the Corporate segment. The Committee reviews the goals relevant to compensation for the Firm's Operating Committee, reviews Operating Committee members' performance against such goals, and approves their compensation awards. The Committee recommends to the full Board's independent directors, for ratification, the CEO's compensation. In addition, the Committee periodically reviews the Firm's management development and succession planning, as well as the Firm's diversity programs.Among the Firm's senior management level committees that are primarily responsible for key risk-related functions are:The Firmwide Risk Committee (&#8220;FRC&#8221;)&#32;is the Firm's highest management-level Risk Committee. It provides oversight of the risks inherent in the Firm's businesses, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, model risk, structural interest rate risk, principal risk and country risk. It also provides oversight of the governance frameworks for operational, fiduciary and reputational risks. The Committee is co-chaired by the Firm's CEO and CRO. Members of the committee include the Firm's COO, the Firm's CFO, LOB CEOs, LOB CROs, General Counsel, and other senior managers from risk and control functions. This committee serves as an escalation point for risk topics and issues raised by its members, the Line of Business Risk Committees, Firmwide Control Committee, Firmwide &nbsp;Fiduciary Risk Committee, Reputation Risk committees and regional Risk Committees. The committee escalates significant issues to the Board of Directors, as appropriate.The Firmwide Control Committee (&#8220;FCC&#8221;) is a forum to review and discuss firmwide operational risk, metrics and management, including existing and emerging issues, and execution against the operational risk management framework. The committee is co-chaired by the Firm's Chief Control Officer and the head of Firmwide Operational Risk Governance/Model Risk and Development. It serves as an escalation point for the line of business, function and regional Control Committees and escalates significant issues to the Firmwide Risk Committee, as appropriate.The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Committee (&#8220;FFRC&#8221;)&#32;is a forum for risk matters related to the Firm's fiduciary activities and oversees the firmwide fiduciary risk governance framework, which supports the consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk matters by the relevant lines of business or corporate functions responsible for managing fiduciary activities. The committee escalates significant issues to the Firmwide Risk Committee and any other committee considered appropriate.The Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance group seeks to promote consistent management of reputational risk across the Firm. Its objectives are to increase visibility of reputation risk governance; promote and maintain a globally consistent governance model for reputation risk across lines of business; promote early self-identification of potential reputation risks to the Firm; and provide thought leadership on cross-line of business reputation risk issues. Each line of business has a separate reputation risk governance structure which includes, in most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk committees.Line of business, corporate function, and regional risk and control committees:Risk committees oversee the inherent risks in the respective line of business, function or region, including the review, assessment and decision making relating to specific risks, risk strategy, policy and controls. These committees escalate issues to the Firmwide Risk Committee, as appropriate.Control committees oversee the operational risks and control environment of the respective line of business, function or region. These committees escalate operational risk issues to their respective line of business, function or regional Risk committee and also escalate significant risk issues (and/or risk issues with potential firmwide impact) to the Firmwide Control Committee.The Asset-Liability Committee (&#8220;ALCO&#8221;),&#32;chaired by the Corporate Treasurer under the direction of the COO, monitors the Firm's overall balance sheet, liquidity risk and interest rate risk. ALCO is responsible for reviewing and approving the Firm's funds transfer pricing policy (through which lines of business &#8220;transfer&#8221; interest rate and foreign exchange risk to Treasury). ALCO is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Liquidity Risk Management and Oversight Policy and contingency funding plan. ALCO also reviews the Firm's overall structural interest rate risk position, funding requirements and strategy, and the Firm's securitization programs (and any required liquidity support by the Firm of such programs).The Capital Governance Committee,&#32;chaired by the Head of Regulatory Capital Management Office (under the direction of the Firm's CFO) is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Capital Management Policy and the principles underlying capital issuance and distribution alternatives. The Committee is also responsible for governing the capital adequacy assessment process, including overall design, assumptions and risk streams and ensuring that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the idiosyncratic risks across the Firm's businesses.Other corporate functions and forums with risk management-related responsibilities include:The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group&#32;is comprised of dedicated control officers within each of the lines of business and corporate functional areas, as well as a central oversight team.&#160;The group is charged with enhancing the Firm's controls by looking within and across the lines of business and&#160;corporate functional areas to identify and control issues. The group enables the Firm to detect control problems more quickly, escalate issues promptly and get the right people involved to understand common themes and interdependencies among the various parts of the Firm. The group works closely with the Firm's other control-related functions, including Compliance, Legal, Internal Audit and Risk Management, to effectively remediate identified control issues across all affected areas of the Firm. As a result, the group facilitates the effective execution of the Firm's control framework and helps support operational risk management across the Firm.The Firmwide Valuation Governance Forum (&#8220;VGF&#8221;) is composed of senior finance and risk executives and is responsible for overseeing the management of risks arising from valuation activities conducted across the Firm. The VGF is chaired by the firmwide head of the Valuation Control function (under the direction of the Firm's CFO), and also includes sub-forums for the CIB, Consumer & Community Banking, Commercial Banking, Asset Management and certain corporate functions, including Treasury and CIO.In addition to the committees, forums and groups listed above, the Firm has other management committees and forums at the LOB and regional levels, where risk-related topics are discussed and escalated as necessary. The membership of these committees is composed of senior management of the Firm including representation from the business and various control functions. The committees meet regularly to discuss a broad range of topics.&nbsp;The JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. Board of Directors is responsible for the oversight of management on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. The JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. Board accomplishes this function acting directly and through the principal standing committees of the Firm's Board of Directors. Risk oversight on behalf of JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A. is primarily the responsibility of the Firm's DRPC, Audit Committee and, with respect to compensation-related matters, the Compensation & Management Development Committee.Risk appetite&#32;The Firm's overall risk appetite is established by management taking into consideration the Firm's capital and liquidity positions, earnings power, and diversified business model. The risk appetite framework is a tool to measure the capacity to take risk and is expressed in loss tolerance parameters at the Firm and/or LOB levels, including net income loss tolerances, liquidity limits and market limits. Performance against these parameters informs management's strategic decisions and is reported to the DRPC.The Firm-level risk appetite parameters are set and approved by the Firm's CEO, CFO, CRO and COO. LOB-level risk appetite parameters are set by the LOB CEO, CFO, and CRO and are approved by the Firm's functional heads as noted above. Firmwide LOB diversification allows the sum of the LOBs' loss tolerances to be greater than the Firmwide loss tolerance.Risk identification for large exposuresThe Firm has certain potential low-probability but plausible and material, idiosyncratic risks not well captured by its other existing risk analysis and reporting for credit, market, and other risks. These idiosyncratic risks may arise in a number of forms, e.g. changes in legislation, an unusual combination of market events, or specific counterparty events. These identified risks are grouped under the term Risk Identification for Large Exposures (&#8220;RIFLEs&#8221;). The identified and monitored RIFLEs allow the Firm to monitor earnings vulnerability that is not adequately covered by its other standard risk measurements.Management's discussion and analysisCredit risk is the risk of loss arising from the default of a customer, client or counterparty. The Firm provides credit to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to individual consumers and small businesses. In its consumer businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk primarily through its residential real estate, credit card, auto, business banking and student lending businesses. Originated mortgage loans are retained in the mortgage portfolio, or securitized or sold to U.S. government agencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises; other types of consumer loans are typically retained on the balance sheet. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is exposed to credit risk through its underwriting, lending and derivatives activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through its operating services activities, such as cash management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses are generally retained on the balance sheet; the Firm's syndicated loan business distributes a significant percentage of originations into the market and is an important component of portfolio management.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the Firm's CRO. The Firm's credit risk management governance consists of the following activities:Risk identification and measurementThe Credit Risk Management function identifies, measures, limits, manages and monitors credit risk across our businesses. To measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default. Methodologies for measuring credit risk vary depending on several factors, including type of asset (e.g., consumer versus wholesale), risk measurement parameters (e.g., delinquency status and borrower's credit score versus wholesale risk-rating) and risk management and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workout groups). Credit risk measurement is based on the probability of default of an obligor or counterparty, the loss severity given a default event and the exposure at default.Based on these factors and related market-based inputs, the Firm estimates credit losses for its exposures. Probable credit losses inherent in the consumer and wholesale loan portfolios are reflected in the allowance for loan losses, and &nbsp;probable credit losses inherent in lending-related commitments are reflected in the allowance for lending-related commitments. These losses are estimated using statistical analyses and other factors as described in Note 15. In addition, potential and unexpected credit losses are reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital and represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the established allowances for loan losses and lending-related commitments. The analyses for these losses include stress testing (considering alternative economic scenarios) as described in the Stress testing section below.The methodologies used to estimate credit losses depend on the characteristics of the credit exposure, as described below.Scored exposureThe scored portfolio is generally held in CCB and predominantly includes residential real estate loans, credit card loans, certain auto and business banking loans, and student loans. For the scored portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on statistical analysis of credit losses over discrete periods of time and are estimated using portfolio modeling, credit scoring, and decision-support tools, which consider loan-level factors such as delinquency status, credit scores, collateral values, and other risk factors. Credit loss analyses also consider, as appropriate, uncertainties and other factors, including those related to current macroeconomic and political conditions, the quality of underwriting standards, and other internal and external factors. The factors and analysis are updated on a quarterly basis or more frequently as market conditions dictate.Risk-rated exposureRisk-rated portfolios are generally held in CIB, CB and AM, but also include certain business banking and auto dealer loans held in CCB that are risk-rated because they have characteristics similar to commercial loans. For the risk-rated portfolio, credit loss estimates are based on estimates of the probability of default (&#8220;PD&#8221;) and loss severity given a default. The estimation process begins with risk-ratings that are assigned to each loan facility to differentiate risk within the portfolio. These risk ratings are reviewed regularly by Credit Risk management and revised as needed to reflect the borrower's current financial position, risk profile and related collateral. The probability of default is the likelihood that a loan will default and not be fully repaid by the borrower. The loss given default (&#8220;LGD&#8221;) is the estimated loss on the loan that would be realized upon the default of the borrower and takes into consideration collateral and structural support for each credit facility.&#160;The probability of default is estimated for each borrower, and a loss given default is estimated for each credit facility. The calculations and assumptions are based on historic experience and management judgment and are reviewed regularly.Stress testingStress testing is important in measuring and managing credit risk in the Firm's credit portfolio. The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on estimated credit losses for the Firm. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally, are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, and applied across the businesses. The stress test results may indicate credit migration, changes in delinquency trends and potential losses in the credit portfolio. In addition to the periodic stress testing processes, management also considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. The Firm uses stress testing to inform decisions on setting risk appetite both at a Firm and LOB level, as well as to assess the impact of stress on industry concentrations.Risk monitoring and managementThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence and integrity of the approval and decision-making process of extending credit to ensure credit risks are assessed accurately, approved properly, monitored regularly and managed actively at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policy framework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies, portfolio review parameters and guidelines for management of distressed exposures. In addition, certain models, assumptions and inputs used in evaluating and monitoring credit risk are independently validated by groups that are separate from the line of businesses.For consumer credit risk, delinquency and other trends, including any concentrations at the portfolio level, are monitored, as certain of these trends can be modified through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio guidelines. Consumer Risk Management evaluates delinquency and other trends against business expectations, current and forecasted economic conditions, and industry benchmarks. Historical and forecasted trends are incorporated into the modeling of estimated consumer credit losses and are part of the monitoring of the credit risk profile of the portfolio. Under the Firm's model risk policy, new significant risk management models, as well as major changes to such models, are required to be reviewed and approved by the Model Review Group prior to implementation into the operating environment. Internal Audit also periodically tests the internal controls around the modeling process including the integrity of the data utilized. For a discussion of the Model Review Group, see page 139. For further discussion of consumer loans, see Note 14.&nbsp;Wholesale credit risk is monitored regularly at an aggregate portfolio, industry and individual client and counterparty level with established concentration limits that are reviewed and revised as deemed appropriate by management, typically on an annual basis. Industry and counterparty limits, as measured in terms of exposure and economic credit risk capital, are subject to stress-based loss constraints.Management of the Firm's wholesale credit risk exposure is accomplished through a number of means, including:In addition to Risk Management, Internal Audit performs periodic exams, as well as continuous review, where appropriate, of the Firm's consumer and wholesale portfolios. For risk-rated portfolios, a credit review group within Internal Audit is responsible for:Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and effective decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit quality forecasts, concentration levels and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior Credit Risk Management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer, product and geographic concentrations occurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by senior management at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure, credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate.Management's discussion and analysis2014&#32;Credit Risk OverviewIn 2014, the consumer credit environment continued to improve and the wholesale credit environment remained favorable. Over the course of the year, the Firm continued to actively manage its underperforming and nonaccrual loans and reduce such exposures through loan restructurings, loan sales and workouts. The Firm saw decreased downgrade, default and charge-off activity and improved consumer delinquency trends. The Firm increased its overall lending activity in both wholesale and consumer businesses. The combination of these factors resulted in an improvement in the credit quality of the portfolio compared with 2013&#32;and contributed to the Firm's reduction in the allowance for credit losses. For further discussion of the consumer credit environment and consumer loans, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113&#8211;119&#32;and Note 14. For further discussion of wholesale credit environment and wholesale loans, see Wholesale Credit Portfolio on pages 120&#8211;127&#32;and Note 14.In the following tables, reported loans include loans retained (i.e., held-for-investment); loans held-for-sale (which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, with valuation changes recorded in noninterest revenue); and certain loans accounted for at fair value. In addition, the Firm records certain loans accounted for at fair value in trading assets. For further information regarding these loans, see Note 3 and Note 4. For additional information on the Firm's loans and derivative receivables, including the Firm's accounting policies, see Note 14 and Note 6.For further information regarding the credit risk inherent in the Firm's investment securities portfolio, see Note 12.&nbsp;The Firm's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential real estate loans, credit card loans, auto loans, business banking loans, and student loans. The Firm's focus is on serving the prime segment of the consumer credit market. For further information on consumer loans, see Note 14.The credit performance of the consumer portfolio continues to benefit from the improvement in the economy and home prices. Both early-stage delinquencies (30&#8211;89 days delinquent) and late-stage delinquencies (150+ days delinquent) for residential real estate, excluding government &nbsp;guaranteed loans, declined from December&#160;31, 2013. Although late-stage delinquencies declined, they remain elevated due to loss-mitigation activities and to elongated foreclosure processing timelines. Losses related to these loans continue to be recognized in accordance with the Firm's standard charge-off practices, but some delinquent loans that would otherwise have been foreclosed upon remain in the mortgage and home equity loan portfolios. The Credit Card 30+ day delinquency rate remains near historic lows.The following table presents consumer credit-related information with respect to the credit portfolio held by CCB, prime mortgage and home equity loans held by AM, and prime mortgage loans held by Corporate.&#32;For further information about the Firm's nonaccrual and charge-off accounting policies, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisConsumer, excluding credit cardPortfolio analysisConsumer loan balances increased during the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, due to prime mortgage, business banking and auto loan originations, partially offset by paydowns and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. Credit performance has improved across most portfolios but delinquent residential real estate loans and home equity charge-offs remain elevated compared with pre-recessionary levels.In the following discussion of loan and lending-related categories, PCI loans are excluded from individual loan product discussions and are addressed separately below. For further information about the Firm's consumer portfolio, including information about delinquencies, loan modifications and other credit quality indicators, see Note 14.Home equity:&#32;The home equity portfolio declined from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;primarily reflecting loan paydowns and charge-offs. Early-stage delinquencies showed improvement from December&#160;31, 2013. Late-stage delinquencies continue to be elevated as improvement in the number of loans becoming severely delinquent was offset by a higher number of loans remaining in late-stage delinquency due to higher average carrying values on these delinquent loans, reflecting improving collateral values. Senior lien nonaccrual loans were flat compared with the prior year while junior lien nonaccrual loans decreased in 2014. Net charge-offs for both senior and junior lien home equity loans declined when compared with the prior year as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies.Approximately 15%&#32;of the Firm's home equity portfolio consists of home equity loans (&#8220;HELOANs&#8221;) and the remainder consists of home equity lines of credit (&#8220;HELOCs&#8221;). HELOANs are generally fixed-rate, closed-end, amortizing loans, with terms ranging from 3&#8211;30 years. Approximately half of the HELOANs are senior liens and the remainder are junior liens. In general, HELOCs originated by the Firm are revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC recasts into a loan with a 20-year amortization period. At the time of origination, the borrower typically selects one of two minimum payment options that will generally remain in effect during the revolving period: a monthly payment of 1% of the outstanding balance, or interest-only payments based on a variable index (typically Prime). HELOCs originated by Washington Mutual were generally revolving loans for a 10-year period, after which time the HELOC converts to an &nbsp;interest-only loan with a balloon payment at the end of the loan's term.The unpaid principal balance of non-PCI HELOCs outstanding was $47 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014. Of the $47 billion, approximately $29 billion&#32;have recently recast or are scheduled to recast from interest-only to fully amortizing payments, with $3 billion&#32;having recast in 2014; $6 billion, $7 billion, and $6 billion&#32;are scheduled to recast in 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively; and $7 billion is scheduled to recast after 2017. However, of the total $26 billion&#32;still remaining to recast, $18 billion&#32;are expected to actually recast; and the remaining $8 billion&#32;represents loans to borrowers who are expected either to pre-pay or charge-off prior to recast. In the third quarter of 2014, the Firm refined its approach for estimating the number of HELOCs expected to voluntarily pre-pay prior to recast. Based on the refined methodology, the number of loans expected to pre-pay declined, resulting in an increase in the number of loans expected to recast. The Firm has considered this payment recast risk in its allowance for loan losses based upon the estimated amount of payment shock (i.e., the excess of the fully-amortizing payment over the interest-only payment in effect prior to recast) expected to occur at the payment recast date, along with the corresponding estimated probability of default and loss severity assumptions. Certain factors, such as future developments in both unemployment rates and home prices, could have a significant impact on the performance of these loans.The Firm manages the risk of HELOCs during their revolving period by closing or reducing the undrawn line to the extent permitted by law when borrowers are exhibiting a material deterioration in their credit risk profile. The Firm will continue to evaluate both the near-term and longer-term repricing and recast risks inherent in its HELOC portfolio to ensure that changes in the Firm's estimate of incurred losses are appropriately considered in the allowance for loan losses and that the Firm's account management practices are appropriate given the portfolio's risk profile.High-risk seconds are loans where the borrower has a first mortgage loan that is either delinquent or has been modified. Such loans are considered to pose a higher risk of default than junior lien loans for which the senior lien is neither delinquent nor modified. At December&#160;31, 2014, the Firm estimated that its home equity portfolio contained approximately $1.8 billion&#32;of current high-risk seconds, compared with $2.3 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. The Firm estimates the balance of its total exposure to high-risk seconds on a quarterly basis using internal data and loan level credit bureau data (which typically provides the delinquency status of the senior lien). The estimated balance of these high-risk seconds may vary from quarter to quarter for reasons such as the movement of related senior liens into and out of the 30+ day delinquency bucket.Of the estimated $1.8 billion&#32;of current high-risk seconds at December&#160;31, 2014, the Firm owns approximately 10%&#32;and services approximately 25%&#32;of the related senior lien loans to the same borrowers. The performance of the Firm's junior lien loans is generally consistent regardless of whether the Firm owns, services or does not own or service the senior lien. The increased probability of default associated with these higher-risk junior lien loans was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses.Mortgage:&#32;Prime mortgages, including option adjustable-rate mortgages (&#8220;ARMs&#8221;) and loans held-for-sale, increased from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;due to higher retained originations partially offset by paydowns, the run-off of option ARM loans and the charge-off or liquidation of delinquent loans. Excluding loans insured by U.S. government agencies, both early-stage and late-stage delinquencies showed improvement from December&#160;31, 2013. Nonaccrual loans decreased from the prior year but remain elevated primarily due to loss mitigation activities and elongated foreclosure processing timelines. Net charge-offs remain low, reflecting continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies.At December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the Firm's prime mortgage portfolio included $12.4 billion&#32;and $14.3 billion, respectively, of mortgage loans insured and/or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, of which $9.7 billion&#32;and $9.6 billion, respectively, were 30 days or more past due (of these past due loans, $7.8 billion&#32;and $8.4 billion, respectively, were 90 days or more past due). The Firm has entered into a settlement regarding loans insured under federal mortgage insurance programs overseen by the FHA, HUD, and VA; the Firm will continue to monitor exposure on future claim payments for government insured loans, but any financial impact related to exposure on future claims is not expected to be significant and was considered in estimating the allowance for loan losses. For further discussion of the settlement, see Note 31.&nbsp;At December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the Firm's prime mortgage portfolio included $16.3 billion&#32;and $15.6 billion, respectively, of interest-only loans, which represented 15%&#32;and 18%, respectively, of the prime mortgage portfolio. These loans have an interest-only payment period generally followed by an adjustable-rate or fixed-rate fully amortizing payment period to maturity and are typically originated as higher-balance loans to higher-income borrowers. To date, losses on this portfolio generally have been consistent with the broader prime mortgage portfolio and the Firm's expectations. The Firm continues to monitor the risks associated with these loans.Subprime mortgages continued to decrease due to portfolio runoff. Early-stage and late-stage delinquencies have improved from December&#160;31, 2013, but remain at elevated levels. Net charge-offs continued to improve as a result of improvement in home prices and delinquencies.Auto: Auto loans increased from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;as new originations outpaced paydowns and payoffs. Nonaccrual loans improved compared with December&#160;31, 2013. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;increased compared with the prior year, reflecting higher average loss per default as national used car valuations declined from historically strong levels. The auto loan portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime-quality credits.Business banking: Business banking loans increased from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;due to an increase in loan originations. Nonaccrual loans improved compared with December&#160;31, 2013. Net charge-offs for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;decreased from the prior year.Student and other: Student and other loans decreased from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;due primarily to the run-off of the student loan portfolio. Student nonaccrual loans increased from December 31, 2013 due to a modification program began in May 2014 that extended the deferment period for up to 24 months for certain student loans, which resulted in extending the maturity of these loans at their original contractual interest rates.Purchased credit-impaired loans: PCI loans acquired in the Washington Mutual transaction decreased as the portfolio continues to run off.As of December&#160;31, 2014, approximately 16%&#32;of the option ARM PCI loans were delinquent and approximately 57%&#32;of the portfolio has been modified into fixed-rate, fully amortizing loans. Substantially all of the remaining loans are making amortizing payments, although such payments are not necessarily fully amortizing. This latter group of loans is subject to the risk of payment shock due to future payment recast. Default rates generally increase on option ARM loans when payment recast results in a payment increase. The expected increase in default rates is considered in the Firm's quarterly impairment assessment.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table provides a summary of lifetime principal loss estimates included in either the nonaccretable difference or the allowance for loan losses.&nbsp;allowance for loan losses. The remaining nonaccretable difference for principal losses was $2.3 billion&#32;and $3.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively.Lifetime principal&#32;loss estimates declined from December&#160;31, 2013, to December&#160;31, 2014, reflecting improvement in home prices and delinquencies. The decline in lifetime principal loss estimates during the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, resulted in a $300 million&#32;reduction of the PCI allowance for loan losses related to option ARM loans. In addition, for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, PCI write-offs of $533 million&#32;were recorded against the prime mortgage allowance for loan losses. For further information on the Firm's PCI loans, including write-offs, see Note 14.Geographic composition of residential real estate loansAt December&#160;31, 2014, $94.3 billion, or 63%&#32;of total retained residential real estate loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, were concentrated in California, New York, Illinois, Florida and Texas, compared with $85.9 billion, or 62%, at December&#160;31, 2013. California had the greatest concentration of these loans with 26%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, compared with 25%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans concentrated in these five states represented 74%&#32;of total PCI loans at both December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and December&#160;31, 2013. For further information on the geographic composition of the Firm's residential real estate loans, see Note 14.Current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loansThe current estimated average loan-to-value (&#8220;LTV&#8221;) ratio for residential real estate loans retained, excluding mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies and PCI loans, was 71%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, compared with 75%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013.&nbsp;Although home prices continue to recover, the decline inhome prices since 2007 has had a significant impact on the collateral values underlying the Firm's residential real estate loan portfolio. In general, the delinquency rate for loans with high LTV ratios is greater than the delinquency rate for loans in which the borrower has greater equity in the collateral. While a large portion of the loans with current estimated LTV ratios greater than 100% continue to pay and are current, the continued willingness and ability of these borrowers to pay remains a risk.The following table presents the current estimated LTV ratios for PCI loans, as well as the ratios of the carrying value of the underlying loans to the current estimated collateral value. Because such loans were initially measured at fair value, the ratios of the carrying value to the current estimated collateral value will be lower than the current estimated LTV ratios, which are based on the unpaid principal balances. The estimated collateral values used to calculate these ratios do not represent actual appraised loan-level collateral values; as such, the resulting ratios are necessarily imprecise and should therefore be viewed as estimates.The current estimated average LTV ratios were 77%&#32;and 88%&#32;for California and Florida PCI loans, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2014, compared with 85%&#32;and 103%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2013. Average LTV ratios have declined consistent with recent improvements in home prices. Although home prices have improved, home prices in most areas of California and Florida are still lower than at the peak of the housing market; this continues to negatively contribute to current estimated average LTV ratios and the ratio of net carrying value to current estimated collateral value for loans in the PCI portfolio. Of the total PCI portfolio, 15%&#32;had a current estimated LTV ratio greater than 100%, and 3%&#32;had a current LTV ratio of greater than 125% at December&#160;31, 2014, compared with 26%&#32;and 7%, respectively, at December&#160;31, 2013.While the current estimated collateral value is greater than the net carrying value of PCI loans, the ultimate performance of this portfolio is highly dependent on borrowers' behavior and ongoing ability and willingness to continue to make payments on homes with negative equity, as well as on the cost of alternative housing.For further information on current estimated LTVs of residential real estate loans, see Note 14.Loan modification activities &#8211; residential real estate loansThe performance of modified loans generally differs by product type due to differences in both the credit quality and the types of modifications provided. Performance metrics for the residential real estate portfolio, excluding PCI loans, that have been modified and seasoned more than six months show weighted-average redefault rates of 20%&#32;for senior lien home equity, 22%&#32;for junior lien home equity, 16%&#32;for prime mortgages including option ARMs, and 29%&#32;for subprime mortgages. The cumulative performance metrics for the PCI residential real estate &nbsp;portfolio modified and seasoned more than six months show weighted average redefault rates of 20%&#32;for home equity, 17%&#32;for prime mortgages, 15%&#32;for option ARMs and 32%&#32;for subprime mortgages. The favorable performance of the PCI option ARM modifications is the result of a targeted proactive program which fixed the borrower's payment to the amount at the point of modification. The cumulative redefault rates reflect the performance of modifications completed under both the Home Affordable Modification Program (&#8220;HAMP&#8221;) and the Firm's proprietary modification programs (primarily the Firm's modification program that was modeled after HAMP) from October 1, 2009, through December&#160;31, 2014.Certain loans that were modified under HAMP and the Firm's proprietary modification programs have interest rate reset provisions (&#8220;step-rate modifications&#8221;). Interest rates on these loans will generally increase beginning in 2014 by 1% per year until the rate reaches a specified cap, typically at a prevailing market interest rate for a fixed-rate loan as of the modification date. The carrying value of non-PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $5 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, with $1 billion&#32;scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in each of 2015 and 2016. The unpaid principal balance of PCI loans modified in step-rate modifications was $10 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, with $2 billion&#32;and $3 billion&#32;scheduled to experience the initial interest rate increase in 2015 and 2016, respectively. The impact of these potential interest rate increases is considered in the Firm's allowance for loan losses. The Firm will continue to monitor this risk exposure to ensure that it is appropriately considered in the Firm's allowance for loan losses.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, relating to modified retained residential real estate loans for which concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Modifications of PCI loans continue to be accounted for and reported as PCI loans, and the impact of the modification is incorporated into the Firm's quarterly assessment of estimated future cash flows. Modifications of consumer loans other than PCI loans are generally accounted for and reported as troubled debt restructurings (&#8220;TDRs&#8221;). For further information on modifications for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, see Note 14.Nonperforming assetsThe following table presents information as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, about consumer, excluding credit card, nonperforming assets.&nbsp;Nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolio totaled&#32;$5.8 billion&#32;and&#32;$6.9 billion&#32;at&#32;December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and&#32;December&#160;31, 2013, respectively, of which&#32;32%&#32;and&#32;34%, respectively, were&#32;greater than 150 days past due. In the aggregate, the unpaid principal balance of residential real estate loans greater than 150 days past due was charged down by approximately 50%&#32;to the estimated net realizable value of the collateral at both December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. The elongated foreclosure processing timelines are expected to continue to result in elevated levels of nonaccrual loans in the residential real estate portfolios.Active and suspended foreclosure:&#32;For information on loans that were in the process of active or suspended foreclosure, see Note 14.Nonaccrual loans: The following table presents changes in the consumer, excluding credit card, nonaccrual loans for the years ended&#32;December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013.Credit CardTotal credit card loans increased from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;due to higher new account originations and increased credit card sales volume. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased to 1.44%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, from 1.67%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. For the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the net charge-off rates were 2.75%&#32;and 3.14%, respectively. Charge-offs have improved compared with a year ago as a result of improvement in delinquent loans. The credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasoned, largely rewards-based portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification.&nbsp;Loans outstanding in the top five states of California, Texas, New York, Illinois and Florida consisted of $54.9 billion&#32;in receivables, or 43%&#32;of the retained loan portfolio, at December&#160;31, 2014, compared with $52.7 billion, or 41%, at December&#160;31, 2013. The greatest geographic concentration of credit card retained loans is in California, which represented 14%&#32;and 13%&#32;of total retained loans at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively. For further information on the geographic composition of the Firm's credit card loans, see Note 14.Modifications of credit card loansAt December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the Firm had $2.0 billion&#32;and $3.1 billion, respectively, of credit card loans outstanding that have been modified in TDRs. These balances included both credit card loans with modified payment terms and credit card loans that reverted back to their pre-modification payment terms because the cardholder did not comply with the modified payment terms. The decrease in modified credit card loans outstanding from December&#160;31, 2013, was attributable to a reduction in new modifications as well as ongoing payments and charge-offs on previously modified credit card loans. &nbsp;Consistent with the Firm's policy, all credit card loans typically remain on accrual status until charged-off. However, the Firm establishes an allowance, which is offset against loans and charged to interest income, for the estimated uncollectible portion of accrued interest and fee income.For additional information about loan modification programs to borrowers, see Note 14.Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm's wholesale businesses are exposed to credit risk through underwriting, lending and trading activities with and for clients and counterparties, as well as through various operating services such as cash management and clearing activities. A portion of the loans originated or acquired by the Firm's wholesale businesses is generally retained on the balance sheet. The Firm distributes a significant percentage of the loans it originates into the market as part of its syndicated loan business and to manage portfolio concentrations and credit risk.The wholesale credit environment remained favorable throughout 2014 driving an increase in client activity. Growth in loans retained was driven primarily by activity in Commercial Banking, while growth in lending-related commitments reflected increased activity in both the Corporate & Investment Bank and Commercial Banking.Discipline in underwriting across all areas of lending continues to remain a key point of focus, consistent with evolving market conditions and the Firm's risk management activities. The wholesale portfolio is actively managed, in part by conducting ongoing, in-depth reviews of client credit quality and transaction structure, inclusive of collateral where applicable; and of industry, product and client concentrations. During the year, wholesale criticized assets decreased from 2013, including a reduction in nonaccrual loans by 40%.&nbsp;The following tables present the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale credit portfolio as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal risk ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's.Wholesale credit exposure &#8211; selected industry exposuresThe Firm focuses on the management and diversification of its industry exposures, paying particular attention to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Exposures deemed criticized align with the U.S. banking regulators' definition of criticized exposures, which consist of the special mention, substandard and doubtful categories. The total criticized component of the portfolio, excluding loans held-for-sale and loans at fair value, decreased by 16%&#32;to $10.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, from $12.2 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013.Management's discussion and analysisBelow are summaries of the top 25 industry exposures as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. For additional information on industry concentrations, see Note 5.Management's discussion and analysisPresented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significant exposure and/or present actual or potential credit concerns. The Firm is actively monitoring these exposures. For additional information, refer to the tables on the previous pages.LoansIn the normal course of its wholesale business, the Firm provides loans to a variety of customers, ranging from large corporate and institutional clients to high-net-worth individuals. For further discussion on loans, including information on credit quality indicators, see Note 14.The Firm actively manages its wholesale credit exposure. One way of managing credit risk is through secondary market sales of loans and lending-related commitments. During the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the Firm sold $22.8 billion&#32;and $16.3 billion, respectively, of loans and lending-related commitments.&nbsp;The following table presents the change in the nonaccrual loan portfolio for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013.The following table presents net charge-offs, which are defined as gross charge-offs less recoveries, for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. The amounts in the table below do not include gains or losses from sales of nonaccrual loans.Receivables from customersReceivables from customers primarily represent margin loans to prime and retail brokerage clients that are collateralized through a pledge of assets maintained in clients' brokerage accounts that are subject to daily minimum collateral requirements. In the event that the collateral value decreases, a maintenance margin call is made to the client to provide additional collateral into the account. If additional collateral is not provided by the client, the client's position may be liquidated by the Firm to meet the minimum collateral requirements.Lending-related commitmentsThe Firm uses lending-related financial instruments, such as commitments (including revolving credit facilities) and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amounts of these financial instruments represent the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparties draw down on these commitments or the Firm fulfills its obligations under these guarantees, and the counterparties subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of these contracts.In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these wholesale lending-related commitments is not representative of the Firm's actual future credit exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis for allocating credit risk capital to these commitments, the Firm has established a &#8220;loan-equivalent&#8221; amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, to become drawn upon in an event of a default by an obligor. The loan-equivalent amount of the Firm's lending-related commitments was $229.6 billion&#32;and $218.9 billion&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively.Clearing servicesThe Firm provides clearing services for clients entering into securities and derivative transactions. Through the provision of these services the Firm is exposed to the risk of non-performance by its clients and may be required to share in losses incurred by central counterparties (&#8220;CCPs&#8221;). Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk to its clients through the collection of adequate margin at inception and throughout the life of the transactions and can also cease provision of clearing services if clients do not adhere to their obligations under the clearing agreement. For further discussion of Clearing services, see Note 29.Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm uses derivative instruments predominantly for market-making activities. Derivatives enable customers to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates, currencies and other markets. The Firm also uses derivative instruments to manage its own credit exposure. The nature of the counterparty and the settlement mechanism of the derivative affect the credit risk to which the Firm is exposed. For OTC derivatives the Firm is exposed to the credit risk of the derivative counterparty. For exchange-traded derivatives (&#8220;ETD&#8221;) such as futures and options, and &#8220;cleared&#8221; over-the-counter (&#8220;OTC-cleared&#8221;) derivatives, the Firm is generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant CCP. Where possible, the Firm seeks to mitigate its credit risk exposures arising from derivative transactions through the use of legally enforceable master netting arrangements and collateral agreements. For further discussion of derivative contracts, counterparties and settlement types, see Note 6.&nbsp;The following table summarizes the net derivative receivables for the periods presented.Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidated balance sheets were $79.0 billion&#32;and $65.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively.&#160;These amounts represent the fair value of the derivative contracts, after giving effect to legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral held by the Firm. However, in management's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also take into consideration additional liquid securities (primarily U.S. government and agency securities and other G7 government bonds) and other cash collateral held by the Firm aggregating $19.6 billion&#32;and $14.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively, that may be used as security when the fair value of the client's exposure is in the Firm's favor.In addition to the collateral described in the preceding paragraph, the Firm also holds additional collateral (primarily: cash; G7 government securities; other liquid government-agency and guaranteed securities; and corporate debt and equity securities) delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions, as well as collateral related to contracts that have a non-daily call frequency and collateral that the Firm has agreed to return but has not yet settled as of the reporting date. Although this collateral does not reduce the balances and is not included in the table above, it is available as security against potential exposure that could arise should the fair value of the client's derivative transactions move in the Firm's favor. As of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, the Firm held $48.6 billion&#32;and $50.8 billion, respectively, of this additional collateral. The prior period amount has been revised to conform with the current period presentation. The derivative receivables fair value, net of all collateral, also does not include other credit enhancements, such as letters of credit. For additional information on the Firm's use of collateral agreements, see Note 6.Management's discussion and analysisWhile useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net fair value of the derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, three measures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#8220;DRE&#8221;), and Average exposure (&#8220;AVG&#8221;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where applicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5%&#32;confidence level. DRE exposure is a measure that expresses the risk of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the risk of loan exposures. The measurement is done by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval of derivative transactions.Finally, AVG is a measure of the expected fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capital and the CVA, as further described below. The three year AVG exposure was $37.5 billion&#32;and $35.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively, compared with derivative receivables, net of all collateral, of $59.4 billion&#32;and $51.3 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively.&nbsp;The fair value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty and the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primary components of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. In addition, the Firm's risk management process takes into consideration the potential impact of wrong-way risk, which is broadly defined as the potential for increased correlation between the Firm's exposure to a counterparty (AVG) and the counterparty's credit quality. Many factors may influence the nature and magnitude of these correlations over time. To the extent that these correlations are identified, the Firm may adjust the CVA associated with that counterparty's AVG. The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions.The accompanying graph shows exposure profiles to the Firm's current derivatives portfolio over the next 10&#160;years as calculated by the DRE and AVG metrics. The two measures generally show that exposure will decline after the first year, if no new trades are added to the portfolio.The following table summarizes the ratings profile by derivative counterparty of the Firm's derivative receivables, including credit derivatives, net of other liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal ratings, which generally correspond to the ratings as defined by S&P and Moody's.(a) The prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current period presentation.As noted above, the Firm uses collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateral agreements &#8211; excluding foreign exchange spot trades, which are not typically covered by collateral agreements due to their short maturity &#8211; was 88%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2014, largely unchanged compared with 86%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2013.Credit derivativesThe Firm uses credit derivatives for two primary purposes: first, in its capacity as a market-maker; and second, as an end-user, to manage the Firm's own credit risk associated with various exposures. For a detailed description of credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.Credit portfolio management activitiesIncluded in the Firm's end-user activities are credit derivatives used to mitigate the credit risk associated with traditional lending activities (loans and unfunded commitments) and derivatives counterparty exposure in the Firm's wholesale businesses (collectively, &#8220;credit portfolio management&#8221; activities). Information on credit portfolio management activities is provided in the table below. For further information on derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.The Firm also uses credit derivatives as an end-user to manage other exposures, including credit risk arising from certain securities held in the Firm's market-making businesses. These credit derivatives are not included in credit portfolio management activities; for further information on these credit derivatives as well as credit derivatives used in the Firm's capacity as a market maker in credit derivatives, see Credit derivatives in Note 6.&nbsp;The credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP; these derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized in principal transactions revenue. In contrast, the loans and lending-related commitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-related commitments and the credit derivatives used in credit portfolio management activities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of the Firm's overall credit exposure.The effectiveness of the Firm's credit default swap (&#8220;CDS&#8221;) protection as a hedge of the Firm's exposures may vary depending on a number of factors, including the named reference entity (i.e., the Firm may experience losses on specific exposures that are different than the named reference entities in the purchased CDS); the contractual terms of the CDS (which may have a defined credit event that does not align with an actual loss realized by the Firm); and the maturity of the Firm's CDS protection (which in some cases may be shorter than the Firm's exposures). However, the Firm generally seeks to purchase credit protection with a maturity date that is the same or similar to the maturity date of the exposure for which the protection was purchased, and remaining differences in maturity are actively monitored and managed by the Firm.Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase's allowance for loan losses covers both the consumer (primarily scored) portfolio and wholesale (risk-rated) portfolio. The allowance represents management's estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the Firm's loan portfolio. Management also determines an allowance for wholesale and certain consumer lending-related commitments.The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component, a formula-based component, and a component related to PCI loans. For a further discussion of the components of the allowance for credit losses and related management judgments, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm on pages 161&#8211;165&#32;and Note 15.At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the Firm, and discussed with the DRPC and Audit Committees of the Board of Directors of the Firm. As of December&#160;31, 2014, JPMorgan Chase&#32;deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appropriate and sufficient to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio.The allowance for credit losses was $14.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, a decrease of $2.2 billion&#32;from $17.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013.&nbsp;The consumer, excluding credit card, allowance for loan losses reflected a reduction from December&#160;31, 2013, primarily due to the continued improvement in home prices and delinquencies in the residential real estate portfolio and the run-off of the student loan portfolio. For additional information about delinquencies and nonaccrual loans in the consumer, excluding credit card, loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113&#8211;119&#32;and Note 14.The credit card allowance for loan losses reflected a reduction from December&#160;31, 2013, primarily related to a decrease in the asset-specific allowance resulting from increased granularity of the impairment estimates and lower balances related to credit card loans modified in TDRs. For additional information about delinquencies in the credit card loan portfolio, see Consumer Credit Portfolio on pages 113&#8211;119&#32;and Note 14.The wholesale allowance for credit losses decreased from December 31, 2013, reflecting a continued favorable credit environment as evidenced by low charge-off rates, and declining nonaccrual balances and other portfolio activity.Management's discussion and analysisProvision for credit lossesFor the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, the provision for credit losses was $3.1 billion, compared with $225 million&#32;for the year ended December&#160;31, 2013. The increase in consumer, excluding credit card, provision for credit losses for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;reflected a $904 million reduction in the allowance for loan losses, as noted above in the Allowance for Credit Losses discussion, which was lower than the $3.8 billion reduction in the prior year. The lower allowance reduction was partially offset by lower net charge-offs in 2014.The increase in credit card provision for credit losses for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;reflected a $350 million &nbsp;reduction in the allowance for loan losses, as noted above in the Allowance for Credit Losses discussion, which was lower than the $1.7 billion reduction in the prior year. The lower allowance reduction was partially offset by lower net charge-offs in 2014.The wholesale provision for credit losses for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;reflected a continued favorable credit environment as evidenced by low charge-off rates, and declining nonaccrual balances and other portfolio activity.For further information on the provision for credit losses, see the Consolidated Results of Operations on pages 68&#8211;71.Market risk is the potential for adverse changes in the value of the Firm's assets and liabilities resulting from changes in market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, implied volatilities or credit spreads.Market risk managementMarket Risk is an independent risk management function that identifies and monitors market risks throughout the Firm and defines market risk policies and procedures. The Market Risk function reports to the Firm's CRO.Market Risk seeks to control risk, facilitate efficient risk/return decisions, reduce volatility in operating performance and provide transparency into the Firm's market risk profile for senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators. Market Risk is responsible for the following functions:Risk identification and classificationEach line of business is responsible for the management of the market risks within its units. The independent risk management group responsible for overseeing each line of business is charged with ensuring that all material market risks are appropriately identified, measured, monitored and managed in accordance with the risk policy framework set out by Market Risk.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:&nbsp;Risk monitoring and controlMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits set in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, the Firm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity and accommodation of client business and management experience. The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate level limits include VaR and stress limits. Similarly, line of business limits include VaR and stress limits and may be supplemented by loss advisories, nonstatistical measurements and profit and loss drawdowns. Limits may also be set within the lines of business, as well at the portfolio or legal entity level.Limits are set by Market Risk and are regularly reviewed and updated as appropriate, with any changes approved by lines of business management and Market Risk. Senior management, including the Firm's CEO and CRO, are responsible for reviewing and approving certain of these risk limits on an ongoing basis. All limits that have not been reviewed within specified time periods by Market Risk are escalated to senior management. The lines of business are responsible for adhering to established limits against which exposures are monitored and reported.Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner by Risk Management to limit approvers, Market Risk and senior management. In the event of a breach, Market Risk consults with Firm senior management and lines of business senior management to determine the appropriate course of action required to return to compliance, which may include a reduction in risk in order to remedy the breach. Certain Firm or line of business-level limits that have been breached for three business days or longer, or by more than 30%, are escalated to senior management and the Firmwide Risk Committee.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table summarizes by LOB the predominant business activities that give rise to market risk, and the market risk management tools utilized to manage those risks; CB is not presented in the table below as it does not give rise to significant market risk.Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase utilizes VaR, a statistical risk measure, to estimate the potential loss from adverse market moves in a normal market environment. The Firm has a single overarching VaR model framework used for calculating Risk Management VaR and Regulatory VaR.The framework is employed across the Firm using historical simulation based on data for the previous 12 months. The framework's approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative of the distribution of potential outcomes in the immediate future. The Firm believes the use of Risk Management VaR provides a stable measure of VaR that closely aligns to the day-to-day risk management decisions made by the lines of business and provides necessary/appropriate information to respond to risk events on a daily basis.Risk Management VaR is calculated assuming a one-day holding period and an expected tail-loss methodology which approximates a 95% confidence level. This means that, assuming current changes in market values are consistent with the historical changes used in the simulation, the Firm would expect to incur VaR &#8220;band breaks,&#8221; defined as losses greater than that predicted by VaR estimates, not more than five times every 100 trading days. The number of VaR band breaks observed can differ from the statistically expected number of band breaks if the current level of market volatility is materially different from the level of market volatility during the twelve months of historical data used in the VaR calculation.Underlying the overall VaR model framework are individual VaR models that simulate historical market returns for individual products and/or risk factors. To capture material market risks as part of the Firm's risk management framework, comprehensive VaR model calculations are performed daily for businesses whose activities give rise to market risk. These VaR models are granular and incorporate numerous risk factors and inputs to simulate daily changes in market values over the historical period; inputs are selected based on the risk profile of each portfolio as sensitivities and historical time series used to generate daily market values may be different across product types or risk management systems. The VaR model results across all portfolios are aggregated at the Firm level.Data sources used in VaR models may be the same as those used for financial statement valuations. However, in cases where market prices are not observable, or where proxies are used in VaR historical time series, the sources may differ. In addition, the daily market data used in VaR models may be different than the independent third-party data collected for VCG price testing in their monthly valuation process (see Valuation process in Note 3 for further information on the Firm's valuation process). VaR model calculations require daily data and a consistent source for valuation and therefore it is not practical to use the data collected in the VCG monthly valuation process.&nbsp;VaR provides a consistent framework to measure risk profiles and levels of diversification across product types and is used for aggregating risks across businesses and monitoring limits. These VaR results are reported to senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators.Since VaR is based on historical data, it is an imperfect measure of market risk exposure and potential losses, and it is not used to estimate the impact of stressed market conditions or to manage any impact from potential stress events. In addition, based on their reliance on available historical data, limited time horizons, and other factors, VaR measures are inherently limited in their ability to measure certain risks and to predict losses, particularly those associated with market illiquidity and sudden or severe shifts in market conditions. The Firm therefore considers other measures in addition to VaR, such as stress testing, to capture and manage its market risk positions.In addition, for certain products, specific risk parameters are not captured in VaR due to the lack of inherent liquidity and availability of appropriate historical data. The Firm uses proxies to estimate the VaR for these and other products when daily time series are not available. It is likely that using an actual price-based time series for these products, if available, would affect the VaR results presented. The Firm uses alternative methods to capture and measure those risk parameters that are not otherwise captured in VaR, including economic-value stress testing and nonstatistical measures as described further below.The Firm's VaR model calculations are periodically evaluated and enhanced in response to changes in the composition of the Firm's portfolios, changes in market conditions, improvements in the Firm's modeling techniques and other factors. Such changes will also affect historical comparisons of VaR results. Model changes go through a review and approval process by the Model Review Group prior to implementation into the operating environment. For further information, see Model risk on page 139.Separately, the Firm calculates a daily aggregated VaR in accordance with regulatory rules (&#8220;Regulatory VaR&#8221;), which is used to derive the Firm's regulatory VaR-based capital requirements under Basel III. This Regulatory VaR model framework currently assumes a ten business-day holding period and an expected tail loss methodology which approximates a 99% confidence level. Regulatory VaR is applied to &#8220;covered&#8221; positions as defined by Basel III, which may be different than the positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR. For example, credit derivative hedges of accrual loans are included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, while Regulatory VaR excludes these credit derivative hedges. In addition, in contrast to the Firm's Risk Management VaR, Regulatory VaR currently excludes the diversification benefit for certain VaR models.Management's discussion and analysisFor additional information on Regulatory VaR and the other components of market risk regulatory capital (e.g. VaR-based measure, stressed VaR-based measure and the respective backtesting) for the Firm, see JPMorgan Chase's &nbsp;Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).The table below shows the results of the Firm's Risk Management VaR measure using a 95% confidence level.As presented in the table above, average Total VaR and average CIB VaR decreased during 2014, compared with 2013. The decrease in Total VaR was primarily due to risk reduction in CIB and Mortgage Banking as well as lower volatility in the historical one-year look-back period during 2014 versus 2013.Average CIB trading VaR decreased during 2014 primarily due to lower VaR in Fixed Income (driven by unwinding of risk and redemptions in the synthetic credit portfolio, and lower volatility in the historical one-year look-back period) and to reduced risk positions in commodities.Average Mortgage Banking VaR decreased during 2014 as a result of reduced exposures due to lower loan originations.Average Treasury and CIO VaR decreased during 2014, compared with 2013. The decrease predominantly reflected the unwind and roll-off of certain marked to market positions, and lower market volatility in the historical one-year look-back period.&nbsp;The Firm's average Total VaR diversification benefit was $7 million or 16% of the sum for 2014, compared with $9 million or 17% of the sum for 2013. In general, over the course of the year, VaR exposure can vary significantly as positions change, market volatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.VaR back-testingThe Firm evaluates the effectiveness of its VaR methodology by back-testing, which compares the daily Risk Management VaR results with the daily gains and losses recognized on market-risk related revenue.The Firm's definition of market risk-related gains and losses is consistent with the definition used by the banking regulators under Basel III. Under this definition market risk-related gains and losses are defined as: profits and losses on the Firm's Risk Management positions, excluding fees, commissions, certain valuation adjustments (e.g., liquidity and DVA), net interest income, and gains and losses arising from intraday trading.The following chart compares the daily market risk-related gains and losses on the Firm's Risk Management positions for the year ended December 31, 2014. As the chart presents market risk-related gains and losses related to those positions included in the Firm's Risk Management VaR, the results in the table below differ from the results of backtesting disclosed in the Market Risk section of the &nbsp;Firm's Basel III Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are based on Regulatory VaR applied to covered positions. The chart shows that for the year ended December 31, 2014, the Firm observed five VaR band breaks and posted gains on 157 of the 260 days in this period.Other risk measuresEconomic-value stress testingAlong with VaR, stress testing is an important tool in measuring and controlling risk. While VaR reflects the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market behavior as an indicator of losses, stress testing is intended to capture the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firm runs weekly stress tests on market-related risks across the lines of business using multiple scenarios that assume significant changes in risk factors such as credit spreads, equity prices, interest rates, currency rates or commodity prices. The framework uses a grid-based approach, which calculates multiple magnitudes of stress for both market rallies and market sell-offs for each risk factor. Stress-test results, trends and explanations based on current market risk positions are reported to the Firm's senior management and to the lines of business to allow them to better understand the sensitivity of positions to certain defined events and to enable them to manage their risks with more transparency.&nbsp;Stress scenarios are defined and reviewed by Market Risk, and significant changes are reviewed by the relevant Risk Committees. While most of the scenarios estimate losses based on significant market moves, such as an equity market collapse or credit crisis, the Firm also develops scenarios to quantify risk arising from specific portfolios or concentrations of risks, which attempt to capture certain idiosyncratic market movements. Scenarios may be redefined on an ongoing basis to reflect current market conditions. Ad hoc scenarios are run in response to specific market events or concerns. The Firm's stress testing framework is utilized in calculating results under scenarios mandated by the Federal Reserve's CCAR and ICAAP (&#8220;Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process&#8221;) processes.Management's discussion and analysisNonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures include sensitivities to variables used to value positions, such as credit spread sensitivities, interest rate basis point values and market values. These measures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated by line-of-business and by risk type, and are used for tactical control and monitoring limits.Loss advisories and profit and loss drawdownsLoss advisories and profit and loss drawdowns are tools used to highlight trading losses above certain levels of risk tolerance. Profit and loss drawdowns are defined as the decline in net profit and loss since the year-to-date peak revenue level.Earnings-at-riskThe VaR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure on the Firm's reported net income is also important as interest rate risk represents one of the Firm's significant market risks. Interest rate risk arises not only from trading activities but also from the Firm's traditional banking activities, which include extension of loans and credit facilities, taking deposits and issuing debt. The Firm evaluates its structural interest rate risk exposure through earnings-at-risk, which measures the extent to which changes in interest rates will affect the Firm's core net interest income (see page 78&#32;for further discussion of core net interest income) and interest rate-sensitive fees. Earnings-at-risk excludes the impact of trading activities and MSR, as these sensitivities are captured under VaR.The CIO, Treasury and Corporate (&#8220;CTC&#8221;) Risk Committee establishes the Firm's structural interest rate risk policies and market risk limits, which are subject to approval by the Risk Policy Committee of the Firm's Board of Directors. CIO, working in partnership with the lines of business, calculates the Firm's structural interest rate risk profile and reviews it with senior management including the CTC Risk Committee and the Firm's ALCO. In addition, oversight of structural interest rate risk is managed through a dedicated risk function reporting to the CTC CRO. This risk function is responsible for providing independent oversight and governance around assumptions; and establishing and monitoring limits for structural interest rate risk.Structural interest rate risk can occur due to a variety of factors, including:&nbsp;The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated, corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through a transfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk-managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances and contractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepayment experience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for repricing, and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions are dynamically reviewed.The Firm manages structural interest rate risk generally through its investment securities portfolio and related derivatives.The Firm conducts simulations of changes in structural interest rate-sensitive revenue under a variety of interest rate scenarios. Earnings-at-risk scenarios estimate the potential change in this revenue, and the corresponding impact to the Firm's pretax core net interest income, over the following 12 months, utilizing multiple assumptions as described below. These scenarios highlight exposures to changes in interest rates, pricing sensitivities on deposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The scenarios include forecasted balance sheet changes, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior. Mortgage prepayment assumptions are based on current interest rates compared with underlying contractual rates, the time since origination, and other factors which are updated periodically based on historical experience.The Firm's benefit to rising rates is largely a result of reinvesting at higher yields and assets re-pricing at a faster pace than deposits.Additionally, another interest rate scenario used by the Firm &#8212; involving a steeper yield curve with long-term rates rising by 100 basis points and short-term rates staying at current levels &#8212; results in a 12-month pretax core net interest income benefit of $566 million. The increase in core net interest income under this scenario reflects the Firm reinvesting at the higher long-term rates, with funding costs remaining unchanged.Country risk is the risk that a sovereign event or action alters the value or terms of contractual obligations of obligors, counterparties and issuers or adversely affects markets related to a particular country. The Firm has a comprehensive country risk management framework for assessing country risks, determining risk tolerance, and measuring and monitoring direct country exposures in the Firm. The Country Risk Management group is responsible for developing guidelines and policies for managing country risk in both emerging and developed countries. The Country Risk Management group actively monitors the various portfolios giving rise to country risk to ensure the Firm's country risk exposures are diversified and that exposure levels are appropriate given the Firm's strategy and risk tolerance relative to a country.Country risk organizationThe Country Risk Management group is an independent risk management function which works in close partnership with other risk functions to identify and monitor country risk within the Firm. The Firmwide Risk Executive for Country Risk reports to the Firm's CRO.Country Risk Management is responsible for the following functions:&nbsp;Country risk identification and measurementThe Firm is exposed to country risk through its lending, investing, and market-making activities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Country exposure includes activity with both government and private-sector entities in a country. Under the Firm's internal country risk management approach, country exposure is reported based on the country where the majority of the assets of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor are located or where the majority of its revenue is derived, which may be different than the domicile (legal residence) or country of incorporation of the obligor, counterparty, issuer or guarantor. Country exposures are generally measured by considering the Firm's risk to an immediate default of the counterparty or obligor, with zero recovery. Assumptions are sometimes required in determining the measurement and allocation of country exposure, particularly in the case of certain tranched credit derivatives. Different measurement approaches or assumptions would affect the amount of reported country exposure.Under the Firm's internal country risk measurement framework:Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm also has indirect exposures to country risk (for example, related to the collateral received on securities financing receivables or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through the Firm's credit, market, and operational risk governance, rather than through Country Risk Management.The Firm's internal country risk reporting differs from the reporting provided under the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (&#8220;FFIEC&#8221;) bank regulatory requirements as there are significant differences in reporting methodology. For further information on the FFIEC's reporting methodology, see Cross-border outstandings on page 325.Country risk stress testingThe country risk stress framework aims to identify potential losses arising from a country crisis by capturing the impact of large asset price movements in a country based on market shocks combined with counterparty specific assumptions. Country Risk Management periodically defines and runs ad hoc stress scenarios for individual countries in response to specific market events and sector performance concerns.Country risk monitoring and controlThe Country Risk Management Group establishes guidelines for sovereign ratings reviews and limit management. Country stress and nominal exposures are measured under a comprehensive country limit framework. Country ratings and limits activity are actively monitored and reported on a regular basis. Country limit requirements are reviewed and approved by senior management as often as necessary, but at least annually. In addition, the Country Risk Management group uses surveillance tools for early identification of potential country risk concerns, such as signaling models and ratings indicators.&nbsp;Country risk reportingThe following table presents the Firm's top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) as of December&#160;31, 2014. The selection of countries is based solely on the Firm's largest total exposures by country, based on the Firm's internal country risk management approach, and does not represent the Firm's view of any actual or potentially adverse credit conditions. Country exposures may fluctuate from period-to-period due to normal client activity and market flows.The Firm's country exposure to Russia was $4.2 billion at December 31, 2014. The Firm is closely monitoring events in the region, and assessing the impact of falling oil prices, a weakening currency, ongoing sanctions and potential countermeasures such as capital controls. The Firm is also focused on possible contagion effects, via trade, financial or political channels.Model riskModel risk is the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on incorrect or misused model outputs and reports.The Firm uses models, for many purposes, but primarily for the measurement, monitoring and management of risk positions. Valuation models are employed by the Firm to value certain financial instruments that cannot otherwise be valued using quoted prices. These valuation models may also be employed as inputs to risk management models, including VaR and economic stress models. The Firm also makes use of models for a number of other purposes, including the calculation of regulatory capital requirements and estimating the allowance for credit losses.Models are owned by various functions within the Firm based on the specific purposes of such models. For example, VaR models and certain regulatory capital models are owned by the line of business-aligned risk management functions. Owners of models are responsible for the development, implementation and testing of their models, as well as referral of models to the Model Risk function (within the Model Risk and Development unit) for review and approval. Once models have been approved, model owners are responsible for the maintenance of a robust operating environment and must monitor and evaluate the performance of the models on an ongoing basis. Model owners may seek to enhance models in response to changes in the portfolios and for changes in product and market developments, as well as to capture improvements in available modeling techniques and systems capabilities.The Model Risk review and governance functions are independent of the model owners and they review and approve a wide range of models, including risk management, valuation and regulatory capital models used by the Firm. The Model Risk review and governance functions are part of the Firm's Model Risk and Development unit, and the Firmwide Model Risk and Development Executive reports to the Firm's CRO.&nbsp;Models are tiered based on an internal standard according to their complexity, the exposure associated with the model and the Firm's reliance on the model. This tiering is subject to the approval of the Model Risk function. A model review conducted by the Model Risk function considers the model's suitability for the specific uses to which it will be put. The factors considered in reviewing a model include whether the model accurately reflects the characteristics of the product and its significant risks, the selection and reliability of model inputs, consistency with models for similar products, the appropriateness of any model-related adjustments, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions that cannot be observed from the market. When reviewing a model, the Model Risk function analyzes and challenges the model methodology and the reasonableness of model assumptions and may perform or require additional testing, including back-testing of model outcomes. Model reviews are approved by the appropriate level of management within the Model Risk function based on the relevant tier of the model.Under the Firm's model risk policy, new models, as well as material changes to existing models, are reviewed and approved by the Model Risk function prior to implementation in the operating environment.In the event that the Model Risk function does not approve a model, the model owner is required to remediate the model within a time period agreed upon with the Model Risk function. The model owner is also required to resubmit the model for review to the Model Risk function and to take appropriate actions to mitigate the model risk if it is to be used in the interim. These actions will depend on the model and may include, for example, limitation of trading activity. The Firm may also implement other appropriate risk measurement tools to augment the model that is subject to remediation. In certain circumstances, exceptions to the Firm's model risk policy may be granted by the head of the Model Risk function to allow a model to be used prior to review or approval.For a summary of valuations based on models, see Critical Accounting Estimates Used by the Firm and Note 3.Management's discussion and analysisPrincipal investments are predominantly privately-held financial assets and instruments, typically representing an ownership or junior capital position, that have unique risks due to their illiquidity or for which there is less observable market or valuation data. Such investing activities are typically intended to be held over extended investment periods and, accordingly, the Firm has no expectation for short-term gain with respect to these investments. Principal investments cover multiple asset classes and are made either in stand-alone investing businesses or as part of a broader business platform. Asset classes include tax-oriented investments including affordable housing and alternative energy investments, private equity, and mezzanine/junior debt investments.&nbsp;The Firm's principal investments are managed under various lines of business and are captured within the respective LOB's financial results. The Firm's approach to managing principal risk is consistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. A Firmwide risk policy framework exists for all principal investing activities. All investments are approved by investment committees that include executives who are independent from the investing businesses. The Firm's independent control functions are responsible for reviewing the appropriateness of the carrying value of principal investments in accordance with relevant policies. Targeted levels for total and annual investments are established in order to manage the overall size of the portfolios. Industry, geographic, and position level concentration limits are in place intended to ensure diversification of the portfolios. The Firm also conducts stress testing on these portfolios using specific scenarios that estimate losses based on significant market moves and/or other risk events. The Firm has taken steps to reduce its exposure to principal investments, selling portions of Corporate's One Equity Partners private equity portfolio and the CIB's Global Special Opportunities Group equity and mezzanine financing portfolio.Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems or due to external events that are neither market nor credit-related. Operational risk is inherent in the Firm's activities and&#32;can manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure of vendors to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as other damage to the Firm. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject. OverviewTo monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains an overall Operational Risk Management Framework (&#8220;ORMF&#8221;) which comprises governance oversight, risk assessment, capital measurement, and reporting and monitoring. The ORMF is intended to enable the Firm to function with a sound and well-controlled operational environment.Risk Management is responsible for prescribing the ORMF to the lines of business and corporate functions and to provide independent oversight of its implementation. In 2014, Operational Risk Officers (&#8220;OROs&#8221;) were appointed across each line of business and corporate function to provide this independent oversight.The lines of business and corporate functions are responsible for implementing the ORMF. The Firmwide Oversight and Control Group, comprised of dedicated control officers within each of the lines of business and corporate functional areas, as well as a central oversight team, is responsible for day to day review and monitoring of ORMF execution.Operational risk management frameworkThe components of the Operational Risk Management Framework are:Oversight and governance Control committees oversee the operational risks and control environment of the respective line of business, function or region. These committees escalate operational risk issues to their respective line of business, function or regional Risk committee and also escalate significant risk issues (and/or risk issues with potential Firmwide impact) to the Firmwide Control Committee (&#8220;FCC&#8221;). The FCC provides a monthly forum for reviewing and discussing Firmwide operational risk metrics and management, including existing and emerging issues, and reviews execution against the ORMF. It escalates significant issues to the Firmwide Risk Committee, as appropriate. For additional information on the Firmwide Control Committee, see Risk Governance on pages 106&#8211;109.&nbsp;Risk self-assessmentIn order to evaluate and monitor operational risk, the lines of business and functions utilize the Firm's standard risk and control self-assessment (&#8220;RCSA&#8221;) process and supporting architecture. The RCSA process requires management to identify material inherent operational risks, assess the design and operating effectiveness of relevant controls in place to mitigate such risks, and evaluate residual risk. Action plans are developed for control issues that are identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving issues on a timely basis. Commencing in 2015, Risk Management will perform sample independent challenge of the RCSA program.Risk reporting and monitoringOperational risk management and control reports provide information, including actual operational loss levels, self-assessment results and the status of issue resolution to the lines of business and senior management. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and to provide consistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and functions.The Firm has a process for capturing, tracking and monitoring operational risk events. The Firm analyzes errors and losses and identifies trends. Such analysis enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by the lines of business.Capital measurementOperational risk capital is measured primarily using a statistical model based on the Loss Distribution Approach (&#8220;LDA&#8221;). The operational risk capital model uses actual losses (internal and external to the Firm), an inventory of material forward-looking potential loss scenarios and adjustments to reflect changes in the quality of the control environment in determining Firmwide operational risk capital. This methodology is designed to comply with the Advanced Measurement rules under the Basel framework.The Firm's capital methodology incorporates four required elements of the Advanced Measurement Approach (&#8220;AMA&#8221;):The primary component of the operational risk capital estimate is the result of a statistical model, the LDA, which simulates the frequency and severity of future operational risk losses based on historical data. The LDA model is used to estimate an aggregate operational loss over a one-year time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. The LDA model incorporates actual&#32;operational losses in the quarter following the period in which those losses were realized, Management's discussion and analysisand the calculation generally continues to reflect such losses even after the issues or business activities giving rise to the losses have been remediated or reduced.The LDA is supplemented by both management's view of plausible tail risk, which is captured as part of the Scenario Analysis process, and evaluation of key LOB internal control metrics (BEICF). The Firm may further supplement such analysis to incorporate management judgment and feedback from its bank regulators. For information related to operational risk RWA, see Regulatory capital on pages 146&#8211;153.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatory compliance and reporting. This includes reviewing the operational risk framework, the effectiveness of the RCSA process, and the loss data-collection and reporting activities.InsuranceOne of the ways operational loss is mitigated is through insurance maintained by the Firm. The Firm purchases insurance to be in compliance with local laws and regulations (e.g., workers compensation), as well as to serve other needs (e.g., property loss and public liability). Insurance may also be required by third parties with whom the Firm does business. The insurance purchased is reviewed and approved by senior management.CybersecurityThe Firm devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly update its systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of the Firm's computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets against attempts by unauthorized parties to obtain access to confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. In 2014, the Firm spent more than $250 million, and had approximately 1,000 people focused on cybersecurity efforts, and these efforts are expected to grow significantly over the coming years.Third parties with which the Firm does business or that facilitate the Firm's business activities (e.g., vendors, exchanges, clearing houses, central depositories, and financial intermediaries) could also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, including with respect to breakdowns or failures of their systems, misconduct by the employees of such parties, or cyberattacks which could affect their ability to deliver a product or service to the Firm or result in lost or compromised information of the Firm or its clients. In addition, customers with which or whom the Firm does business can also be sources of cybersecurity risk to the Firm, particularly when their activities and systems are beyond the Firm's own security and control systems. Customers will generally be responsible for losses incurred due to their own failure to maintain the security of their own systems and processes.&nbsp;The Firm and several other U.S. financial institutions have experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks from technically sophisticated and well-resourced unauthorized parties which are intended to disrupt online banking services. The Firm and its clients are also regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious code and viruses.On September 10, 2014, the Firm disclosed that a cyberattack against the Firm had occurred. On October 2, 2014, the Firm updated that information and disclosed that, while user contact information (name, address, phone number and email address) and internal JPMorgan Chase information relating to such users had been compromised, there had been no evidence that account information for such affected customers -- account numbers, passwords, user IDs, dates of birth or Social Security numbers -- was compromised during the attack. The Firm continues to vigilantly monitor the situation. In addition, as of the October 2, 2014 announcement, as well as of the date of this Annual Report, the Firm has not seen any unusual customer fraud related to this incident. The Firm is cooperating with government agencies in connection with their investigation of the incident. The Firm also notified its customers that they were not liable for unauthorized transactions in their accounts attributable to this attack that they promptly alerted the Firm about.The Firm has established, and continues to establish, defenses on an ongoing basis to mitigate this and other possible future attacks. The cyberattacks experienced to date have not resulted in any material disruption to the Firm's operations or had a material adverse effect on the Firm's results of operations. The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee are regularly apprised regarding the cybersecurity policies and practices of the Firm as well as the Firm's efforts regarding this attack and other significant cybersecurity events.Cybersecurity attacks, like the one experienced by the Firm, highlight the need for continued and increased cooperation among businesses and the government, and the Firm continues to work with the appropriate government and law enforcement agencies and other businesses, including the Firm's third-party service providers, to continue to enhance defenses and improve resiliency to cybersecurity threats.Business and Technology ResiliencyJPMorgan Chase's global resiliency and crisis management program is intended to ensure that the Firm has the ability to recover its critical business functions and supporting assets (i.e., staff, technology and facilities) in the event of a business interruption, and to remain in compliance with global laws and regulations as they relate to resiliency risk. The program includes corporate governance, awareness and training, as well as strategic and tactical initiatives aimed to ensure that risks are properly identified, assessed, and managed.The Firm has established comprehensive tracking and reporting of resiliency plans in order to proactively anticipate and manage various potential disruptive circumstances such as severe weather, technology and communications outages, flooding, mass transit shutdowns and terrorist threats, among others. The resiliency measures utilized by the Firm include backup infrastructure for data centers, a geographically distributed workforce, dedicated recovery facilities, providing technological capabilities to support remote work capacity for displaced staff and accommodation of employees at alternate locations. JPMorgan Chase continues to coordinate its global resiliency program across the Firm and mitigate business continuity risks by reviewing and testing recovery procedures. The strength and proficiency of the Firm's global resiliency program has played an integral role in maintaining the Firm's business operations during and quickly after various events in 2014 that have resulted in business interruptions, such as severe winter weather in the U.S., tropical storms in the Philippines, and geopolitical events in Brazil and Hong Kong.Management's discussion and analysisLegal risk is the risk of loss or imposition of damages, fines, penalties or other liability arising from failure to comply with a contractual obligation or to comply with laws or regulations to which the Firm is subject.OverviewIn addition to providing legal services and advice to the Firm, and communicating and helping the lines business adjust to the legal and regulatory changes they face, including the heightened scrutiny and expectations of the Firm's regulators, the global Legal function is responsible for working with the businesses and corporate functions to fully understand and assess their adherence to laws and regulations, as well as potential exposures on key litigation and transactional matters. In particular, Legal assists Oversight & Control, Risk, Finance, Compliance and Internal Audit in their efforts to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and the Firm's corporate standards for doing business. The Firm's lawyers also advise the Firm on potential legal exposures on key litigation and transactional matters, and perform a significant defense and advocacy role by defending the Firm against claims and potential claims and, when needed, pursuing claims against others. Governance and OversightThe Firm's General Counsel reports to the CEO and is a member of the Operating Committee, the Firmwide Risk Committee and the Firmwide Control Committee. The General Counsel's leadership team includes a General Counsel for each line of business, the heads of the Litigation and Corporate & Regulatory practices, as well as the Firm's Corporate Secretary. Each region (e.g., Latin America, Asia Pacific) has a General Counsel who is responsible for managing legal risk across all lines of business and functions in the region.Legal works with various committees (including new business initiative and reputation risk committees) and the Firm's businesses to protect the Firm's reputation beyond any particular legal requirements. In addition, the Firm's Conflicts Office examines the Firm's wholesale transactions that may have the potential to create conflicts of interest for the Firm.&nbsp;Compliance risk is the risk fines or sanctions or of financial damage or loss due to the failure to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.OverviewGlobal Compliance Risk Management's (&#8220;Compliance&#8221;) role is to identify, measure, monitor, and report on and provide oversight regarding compliance risks arising from business operations, and provide guidance on how the Firm can mitigate these risks.While each line of business is accountable for managing its compliance risk, the Firm's Compliance teams work closely with the Operating Committee and senior management to provide independent review and oversight of the lines of business operations, with a focus on compliance with applicable global, regional and local laws and regulations. In recent years, the Firm has experienced heightened scrutiny by its regulators of its compliance with regulations, and with respect to its controls and operational processes. The Firm expects such regulatory scrutiny will continue.Governance and OversightCompliance operates independent of the lines of business, and is led by the Chief Compliance Officer (&#8220;CCO&#8221;) who reports directly to the Firm's COO. The Firm maintains oversight and coordination in its Compliance Risk Management practices globally through ongoing dialog and reporting between the lines of business, Regional Chief Compliance Officers and the CCO regarding significant compliance and regulatory management matters, as well as implementation of the Compliance program across the lines of business and Regions.The Firm has in place a Code of Conduct (the &#8220;Code&#8221;), and each employee is given annual training in respect of the Code and is required annually to affirm his or her compliance with the Code. The Code sets forth the Firm's core principles and fundamental values, including that no employee should ever sacrifice integrity - or give the impression that he or she has - even if one thinks it would help the Firm's business. The Code requires prompt reporting of any known or suspected violation of the Code, any internal Firm policy, or any law or regulation applicable to the Firm's business. It also requires the reporting of any illegal conduct, or conduct that violates the underlying principles of the Code, by any of the Firm's customers, suppliers, contract workers, business partners, or agents. Specified employees are specially trained and designated as &#8220;code specialists&#8221; who act as a resource to employees on Code of Conduct matters. In addition, concerns may be reported anonymously and the Firm prohibits retaliation against employees for the good faith reporting of any actual or suspected violations of the Code.Fiduciary risk is the risk of a failure to exercise the applicable high standard of care, to act in the best interests of clients or to treat clients fairly, as required under applicable law or regulation.Depending on the fiduciary activity and capacity in which the Firm is acting, federal and state statutes and regulations, and common law require the Firm to adhere to specific duties in which the Firm must always place the client's interests above its own.Fiduciary risk governanceFiduciary Risk Management is the responsibility of the relevant LOB risk and/or other governance committees. Senior business, legal, risk and compliance managers, who have particular responsibility for fiduciary matters, work with the relevant LOB risk committees with the goal of ensuring that businesses providing investment, trusts and estates, or other fiduciary products or services that give rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform at the appropriate standard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client. Each LOB and its respective risk and/or other governance committees are responsible for the oversight and management of the fiduciary risks in their businesses. Of particular focus are the policies and practices that address a business's responsibilities to a client, including performance and service requirements and expectations; client suitability determinations; and disclosure obligations and communications. In this way, the relevant LOB risk and/or other governance committees provide oversight of the Firm's efforts to monitor, measure and control the performance and delivery of the products or services to clients that may give rise to such fiduciary duties, as well as the Firm's fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the Firm's employee benefit plans.The Firmwide Fiduciary Risk Committee (&#8220;FFRC&#8221;) is a forum for risk matters related to the Firm's fiduciary activities and oversees the firmwide fiduciary risk governance framework. It supports the consistent identification and escalation of fiduciary risk matters by the relevant lines of business or corporate functions responsible for managing fiduciary activities. The committee escalates significant issues to the Firmwide Risk Committee and any other committee considered appropriate.&nbsp;Reputation risk is the risk that an action, transaction, investment or event will reduce the trust that clients, shareholders, employees or the broader public has in the Firm's integrity or competence. Maintaining the Firm's reputation is the responsibility of each individual employee of the Firm. The Firm's Reputation Risk policy explicitly vests each employee with the responsibility to consider the reputation of the Firm when engaging in any activity. Since the types of events that could harm the Firm's reputation are so varied across the Firm's lines of business, each line of business has a separate reputation risk governance infrastructure in place, which comprises three key elements: clear, documented escalation criteria appropriate to the business footprint; a designated primary discussion forum &#8211; in most cases, one or more dedicated reputation risk committees; and a list of designated contacts. Line of business reputation risk governance is overseen by a Firmwide Reputation Risk Governance function, which provides oversight of the governance infrastructure and process to support the consistent identification, escalation, management and reporting of reputation risk issues firmwide.Management's discussion and analysisA strong capital position is essential to the Firm's business strategy and competitive position. The Firm's capital strategy focuses on long-term stability, which enables the Firm to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment. Prior to making any decisions on future business activities, senior management considers the implications on the Firm's capital. In addition to considering the Firm's earnings outlook, senior management evaluates all sources and uses of capital with a view to preserving the Firm's capital strength. Maintaining a strong balance sheet to manage through economic volatility is considered a strategic imperative by the Firm's Board of Directors, CEO and Operating Committee. The Firm's balance sheet philosophy focuses on risk-adjusted returns, strong capital and reserves, and robust liquidity.The Firm's capital management objectives are to hold capital sufficient to:These objectives are achieved through ongoing monitoring of the Firm's capital position, regular stress testing, and a capital governance framework. Capital management is intended to be flexible in order to react to a range of potential events. JPMorgan Chase has firmwide and LOB processes for ongoing monitoring and active management of its capital position.Capital strategy and governanceThe Firm's CEO, in conjunction with the Board and its subcommittees, establish principles and guidelines for capital planning, capital issuance, usage and distributions, and establish capital targets for the level and composition of capital in both business-as-usual and highly stressed environments.The Firm's senior management recognizes the importance of a capital management function that supports strategic decision-making. The Firm has established the Capital Governance Committee and the Regulatory Capital Management Office (&#8220;RCMO&#8221;) as key components in support of this objective. The Capital Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing the Firm's Capital Management Policy and the principles underlying capital issuance and distribution alternatives. The Committee is also responsible &nbsp;for governing the capital adequacy assessment process, including overall design, assumptions and risk streams, and ensuring that capital stress test programs are designed to adequately capture the idiosyncratic risks across the Firm's businesses. RCMO, which reports to the Firm's CFO, is responsible for reviewing, approving and monitoring the implementation of the Firm's capital policies and strategies, as well as its capital adequacy assessment process. The DRPC assesses the Firm's capital adequacy process and its components. This review determines the effectiveness of the capital adequacy process, the appropriateness of the risk tolerance levels, and the strength of the control infrastructure. For additional discussion on the DRPC, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 105&#8211;109.Capital disciplinesIn its capital management, the Firm uses three primary disciplines, which are further described below:Regulatory capitalThe Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#8220;OCC&#8221;) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A.The U.S. capital requirements follow the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, as amended from time to time. Prior to January 1, 2014, the Firm and its banking subsidiaries were subject to the capital requirements of Basel I and Basel 2.5. Effective January 1, 2014, the Firm became subject to Basel III (which incorporates Basel 2.5).Basel III overviewBasel III, for U.S. bank holding companies and banks, revises, among other things, the definition of capital and introduces a new common equity Tier 1 capital (&#8220;CET1 capital&#8221;) requirement; presents two comprehensive methodologies for calculating risk-weighted assets (&#8220;RWA&#8221;), a general (Standardized) approach, which replaces Basel I RWA (&#8220;Basel III Standardized&#8221;) and an advanced approach, which replaces Basel II RWA (&#8220;Basel III Advanced&#8221;); and sets out minimum capital ratios and overall capital adequacy standards. Certain of the requirements of Basel III are subject to phase-in periods that began January 1, 2014 and continue through the end of 2018 (&#8220;Transitional period&#8221;) as described below. Both Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced became effective commencing January 1, 2014 for large and internationally active U.S. bank holding companies and banks, including the Firm and its insured depository institution (&#8220;IDI&#8221;) subsidiaries.Prior to the implementation of Basel III Advanced, the Firm was required to complete a qualification period (&#8220;parallel run&#8221;) during which it needed to demonstrate that it met the requirements of the rule to the satisfaction of its U.S. banking regulators. On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC informed the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries that they had satisfactorily completed the parallel run requirements and were approved to calculate capital under Basel III Advanced, in addition to Basel III Standardized, as of April 1, 2014. In conjunction with its exit from the parallel run, the capital adequacy of the Firm and its national bank subsidiaries is evaluated against the Basel III approach (Standardized or Advanced) which results, for each quarter beginning with the second quarter of 2014, in the lower ratio (the &#8220;Collins Floor&#8221;), as required by the Collins Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act.Definition of capitalBasel III revises Basel I and II by narrowing the definition of capital and increasing the capital requirements for specific exposures. Under Basel III, CET1 capital predominantly includes common stockholders' equity (including capital for AOCI related to debt and equity securities classified as AFS as well as for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement employee benefit (&#8220;OPEB&#8221;) plans), less certain deductions for goodwill, MSRs and deferred tax assets that arise from net operating loss (&#8220;NOL&#8221;) and tax credit carryforwards. Tier 1 capital is predominantly comprised of CET1 capital as well as perpetual preferred stock. Tier 2 capital includes long-term debt qualifying as Tier 2 and qualifying allowance for credit losses. Total capital is Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital. The revisions to CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital are subject to phase-in periods that began January 1, 2014, and continue through the end of 2018, and during that period, CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital represent Basel III Transitional capital.&nbsp;Risk-weighted assetsBasel III establishes two comprehensive methodologies for calculating RWA (a Standardized approach and an Advanced approach) which include capital requirements for credit risk, market risk, and in the case of Basel III Advanced, also operational risk. Key differences in the calculation of credit risk RWA between the Standardized and Advanced approaches are that for Basel III Advanced, credit risk RWA is based on risk-sensitive approaches which largely rely on the use of internal credit models and parameters, whereas for Basel III Standardized, credit risk RWA is generally based on supervisory risk-weightings which vary primarily by counterparty type and asset class. Market risk RWA is calculated on a generally consistent basis between Basel III Standardized and Basel III Advanced, both of which incorporate the requirements set forth in Basel 2.5. In addition to the RWA calculated under these methodologies, the Firm may supplement such amounts to incorporate management judgment and feedback from its bank regulators.Supplementary leverage ratio (&#8220;SLR&#8221;)Basel III also includes a requirement for Advanced Approach banking organizations, including the Firm, to calculate a SLR. The SLR, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as Tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by the Firm's total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure is calculated by taking the Firm's total average on-balance sheet assets, less amounts permitted to be deducted for Tier 1 capital, and adding certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivatives potential future exposure.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a final rule for the calculation of the SLR. The U.S. final rule requires public disclosure of the SLR beginning with the first quarter of 2015, and also requires U.S. bank holding companies, including the Firm, to have a minimum SLR of at least 5% and IDI subsidiaries, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase&#160;Bank&#160;USA,&#160;N.A., to have a minimum SLR of at least 6%, both beginning January 1, 2018.Management's discussion and analysisCapital ratiosThe basis to calculate the Firm's capital ratios (both risk-based and leverage) under Basel III during the transitional period and when fully phased-in are shown in the table below.Risk-based capital regulatory minimumsThe Basel III rules include minimum capital ratio requirements that are also subject to phase-in periods through January 1, 2019.In addition to the regulatory minimum capital requirements, certain banking organizations, including the Firm, will be required to hold an additional 2.5% of CET1 capital to serve as a &#8220;capital conservation buffer.&#8221; The capital conservation buffer is intended to be used to absorb potential losses in times of financial or economic stress; if not maintained, the Firm could be limited in the amount of capital that may be distributed, including dividends and common equity repurchases. The capital conservation buffer will be phased-in beginning January 1, 2016.Moreover, G-SIBs will be required to maintain, in addition to the capital conservation buffer, further amounts of capital ranging from 1% to 2.5% across all tiers of regulatory capital. In November 2014, based upon data as of December 31, 2013, the Financial Stability Board (&#8220;FSB&#8221;) indicated that certain G-SIBs, including the Firm, would be required to hold the additional 2.5% of capital; the requirement will be phased-in beginning January 1, 2016. &nbsp;The Basel Committee has stated that G-SIBs could in the future be required to hold 3.5% or more of additional capital if their relative systemic importance were to increase. Currently, no G-SIB is required to hold more than the additional 2.5% of capital.Consequently, based upon the final rules currently in effect, the minimum Basel III CET1 capital ratio requirement for the Firm is expected to be 9.5%, comprised of the minimum ratio of 4.5% plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer and the 2.5% G-SIB requirement both beginning January 1, 2019.Basel III also establishes a minimum 6.5% CET1 standard for the definition of &#8220;well capitalized&#8221; under the Prompt Corrective Action (&#8220;PCA&#8221;) requirements of the FDIC Improvement Act (&#8220;FDICIA&#8221;). The CET1 standard is effective beginning with the first quarter of 2015.The following chart presents the Basel III minimum CET1 capital ratio during the transitional periods and on a fully phased-in basis under the Basel III rules currently in effect. It is the Firm's current expectation that its Basel III CET1 ratio will exceed the regulatory minimums, both during the transition period and upon full implementation in 2019 and thereafter.On December 9, 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (&#8220;NPR&#8221;) that would establish a new capital surcharge across all tiers of regulatory capital for G-SIBs in the U.S., including the Firm. The Firm estimates its fully phased-in G-SIB surcharge (based upon data as of December 31, 2013) would be 4.5% under the NPR, compared to a fully phased-in G-SIB surcharge of 2.5% as estimated under the Basel III rules currently in effect.Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-InBased on the U.S. capital rules currently in effect, Basel III capital rules will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, at which point the Firm will continue to calculate its capital ratios under both the Basel III Standardized and Advanced Approaches, and the Firm will continue to have its capital adequacy evaluated against the approach that results in the lower ratio. While the Firm has recently imposed Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In RWA limits on the lines of business in adapting its capital framework, the Firm currently expects to manage each of the businesses (including line of business equity allocations), as well as the corporate functions, primarily on a Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In basis.The Firm's capital, RWA and capital ratios that are presented under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In (and CET1 under Basel I as of December 31, 2013), are non-GAAP financial measures. However, such measures are used by bank regulators, investors and analysts to assess the Firm's capital position and to compare the Firm's capital to that of other financial services companies.The Firm's estimates of its Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In capital, RWA and capital ratios and of the Firm's, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s, and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s SLRs reflect management's current understanding of the U.S. Basel III rules based on the current published rules and &nbsp;on the application of such rules to the Firm's businesses as currently conducted. The actual impact on the Firm's capital ratios and SLR as of the effective date of the rules may differ from the Firm's current estimates depending on changes the Firm may make to its businesses in the future, further implementation guidance from the regulators, and regulatory approval of certain of the Firm's internal risk models (or, alternatively, regulatory disapproval of the Firm's internal risk models&#160;that have previously been conditionally approved).The following table presents the estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In Capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase at December 31, 2014. Also included in the table are the regulatory minimum ratios currently expected to be in effect beginning January 1, 2019.Management's discussion and analysisA reconciliation of total stockholders' equity to Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total qualifying capital is presented in the table below.&nbsp;Capital rollforwardThe following table presents the changes in CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital for the year ended December 31, 2014. Under Basel I CET1 represents Tier 1 common capital.RWA rollforwardThe following table presents changes in the components of RWA under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In for the year ended December 31, 2014. The amounts in the rollforward categories are estimates, based on the predominant driver of the change.&nbsp;Basel III TransitionalBasel III Transitional capital requirements became effective on January 1, 2014, and will become fully phased-in on January 1, 2019. The following table presents a reconciliation of the Firm's Basel III Advanced Transitional capital and RWA to the Firm's estimated Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In capital and RWA as of December 31, 2014.Management's discussion and analysisThe following table presents the regulatory capital ratios as of December 31 2014, under Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional. Also included in the table are the regulatory minimum ratios in effect as of December 31, 2014.At December 31, 2014, JPMorgan Chase maintained Basel III Standardized Transitional and Basel III Advanced Transitional capital ratios in excess of the well-capitalized standards established by the Federal Reserve.Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios and the U.S. federal regulatory capital standards to which the Firm is subject is presented in Note 28. For further information on the Firm's Basel III measures, see the Firm's consolidated Pillar 3 Regulatory Capital Disclosures reports, which are available on the Firm's website (http://investor.shareholder.com/jpmorganchase/basel.cfm).Supplementary leverage ratioThe Firm estimates that if the U.S. SLR final rule were in effect at December 31, 2014, the Firm's SLR would have been approximately 5.6% and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.'s and Chase Bank USA, N.A.'s SLRs would have been approximately 5.9% and 8.1%, respectively, at that date.Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (&#8220;CCAR&#8221;) The Federal Reserve requires large bank holding companies, including the Firm, to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses the CCAR and Dodd-Frank Act stress test processes to ensure that large bank holding companies have sufficient capital during periods of economic and financial stress, and have robust, forward-looking capital assessment and planning processes in place that address each BHC's unique risks to enable them to have the ability to absorb losses under certain stress scenarios. Through the CCAR, the Federal Reserve evaluates each BHC's capital adequacy and internal capital adequacy assessment processes, as well as its plans to make capital distributions, such as dividend payments or stock repurchases.&nbsp;On March 26, 2014, the Federal Reserve informed the Firm that it did not object, on either a quantitative or qualitative basis, to the Firm's 2014 capital plan. For information on actions taken by the Firm's Board of Directors following the 2014 CCAR results, see Capital actions on page 154.On January 5, 2015, the Firm submitted its 2015 capital plan to the Federal Reserve under the Federal Reserve's 2015 CCAR process. The Firm expects to receive the Federal Reserve's final response to its plan no later than March 31, 2015.The Firm's CCAR process is integrated into and employs the same methodologies utilized in the Firm's Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (&#8220;ICAAP&#8221;) process, as discussed below.Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment ProcessSemiannually, the Firm completes the ICAAP, which provides management with a view of the impact of severe and unexpected events on earnings, balance sheet positions, reserves and capital. The Firm's ICAAP integrates stress testing protocols with capital planning.The process assesses the potential impact of alternative economic and business scenarios on the Firm's earnings and capital. Economic scenarios, and the parameters underlying those scenarios, are defined centrally and applied uniformly across the businesses. These scenarios are articulated in terms of macroeconomic factors, which are key drivers of business results; global market shocks, which generate short-term but severe trading losses; and idiosyncratic operational risk events. The scenarios are intended to capture and stress key vulnerabilities and idiosyncratic risks facing the Firm. However, when defining a broad range of scenarios, realized events can always be worse. Accordingly, management considers additional stresses outside these scenarios, as necessary. ICAAP results are reviewed by management and the Board of Directors.Minimum Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (&#8220;TLAC&#8221;) In November 2014, the FSB, in consultation with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, issued a consultative document proposing that, in order for G-SIBs to have sufficient loss absorbing and recapitalization capacity to support an orderly resolution, they would be required to have outstanding a sufficient amount and type of debt and capital instruments. This amount and type of debt and capital instruments (or &#8220;total loss absorbing capacity&#8221; or TLAC) is intended to effectively absorb losses, as necessary, upon a failure of a G-SIB, without imposing such losses on taxpayers of the relevant jurisdiction or causing severe systemic disruptions, and thereby ensuring the continuity of the G-SIBs critical functions. The document identifies specific criteria that must be met for instruments to be considered eligible under TLAC and sets out minimum requirements that include existing Basel III minimum capital requirements, excluding capital buffers. The FSB's proposed range for a common minimum TLAC requirement is 16-20% of the financial institution's RWA and at least twice its Basel III Tier 1 leverage ratio. The Firm estimated that it has approximately 15% minimum TLAC as a percentage of Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-in RWA, excluding capital buffers currently in effect, at year end 2014 based on its understanding of how the FSB proposal may be implemented in the United States. The FSB is expected to revise its proposal following a period of public consultation and findings from a quantitative impact study and market survey to be conducted in the first quarter of 2015. The final proposal is expected to be submitted to the G-20 in advance of the G-20 Summit scheduled for fourth quarter of 2015. U.S. banking regulators are expected to issue an NPR that would outline TLAC requirements specific to U.S. banks.Regulatory capital outlookThe Firm expects to continue to accrete capital in the near term and believes its current capital levels enable it to retain market access, continue its strategy to invest in and grow its businesses and maintain flexibility to distribute excess capital. The Firm intends to balance return of capital to shareholders with achieving higher capital ratios over time. Additionally, the Firm expects the capital ratio calculated under the Basel III Standardized Fully Phased-In Approach to become its binding constraint by the end of 2015, or slightly thereafter. As a result, the Firm expects to reach Basel III Advanced and Standardized Fully Phased-In CET1 ratios of approximately 11% by the end of 2015 and is targeting reaching a Basel III CET1 ratio of approximately 12% by the end of 2018.The Firm's capital targets take into consideration the current U.S. Basel III requirements and contemplate the requirements under the U.S. G-SIB proposal issued on December 9, 2014 and therefore, assume a 4.5% G-SIB capital surcharge. These targets are subject to revision in the future as a result of changes that may be introduced by banking regulators to the required minimum ratios to which the Firm is subject. In particular, if the Firm's G-SIB capital surcharge is determined to be lower than 4.5%, the capital targets would be adjusted accordingly. The Firm intends to manage its capital so that it achieves the required capital levels and composition in line with or in advance of the required timetables of current and proposed rules.Economic risk capitalEconomic risk capital is another of the disciplines the Firm uses to assess the capital required to support its businesses. Economic risk capital is a measure of the capital needed to cover JPMorgan Chase's business activities in the event of unexpected losses. The Firm measures economic risk capital using internal risk-assessment methodologies and models based primarily on four risk factors: credit, market, operational and private equity risk and considers factors, assumptions and inputs that differ from those required to be used for regulatory capital requirements. Accordingly, economic risk capital provides a complementary measure to regulatory capital. As economic risk capital is a separate component of the capital framework for Advanced Approach banking organizations under Basel III, the Firm continues to enhance its economic risk capital framework.&nbsp;Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital to its business segments is based on the following objectives:Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require if it were operating independently, considering capital levels for similarly rated peers, regulatory capital requirements (as estimated under Basel III Advanced Fully Phased-In) and economic risk measures. Capital is also allocated to each line of business for, among other things, goodwill and other intangibles associated with acquisitions effected by the line of business. ROE is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as key measures of a business segment's performance.Effective January 1, 2013, the Firm refined the capital allocation framework to align it with the revised line of business structure that became effective in the fourth quarter of 2012. The change in equity levels for the lines of businesses was largely driven by the evolving regulatory requirements and higher capital targets the Firm had established under the Basel III Advanced Approach. On at least an annual basis, the Firm assesses the level of capital required for each line of business as well as the assumptions and methodologies used to allocate capital to its lines of business and updates the equity allocations to its lines of business as refinements are implemented.Management's discussion and analysisCapital actionsDividendsThe Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desired dividend payout ratio, capital objectives, and alternative investment opportunities.The Firm's current expectation is to continue to target a payout ratio of approximately 30% of normalized earnings over time. Following the Federal Reserve's non-objection to the Firm's 2014 capital plan, the Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend on May 20, 2014, from $0.38 to $0.40 per share, effective beginning with the dividend paid on July&#160;31,&#160;2014, to stockholders of record on July 3, 2014.For information regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 22 and Note 27.The following table shows the common dividend payout ratio based on reported net income.Preferred stockDuring the year ended December 31, 2014, the Firm issued $8.9 billion&#32;of noncumulative preferred stock. Preferred stock dividends declared were $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. Assuming all preferred stock issuances were outstanding for the entire year and quarterly dividends were declared on such issuances, preferred stock dividends would have been $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014. For additional information on the Firm's preferred stock, see Note 22.Redemption of outstanding trust preferred securitiesOn May 8, 2013, the Firm redeemed approximately $5.0&#160;billion, or 100% of the liquidation amount, of the following eight series of trust preferred securities: JPMorgan Chase Capital X, XI, XII, XIV, XVI, XIX, XXIV, and BANK ONE Capital VI. For a further discussion of trust preferred securities, see Note 21.Common equityOn March&#160;13, 2012, the Board of Directors authorized a $15.0 billion&#32;common equity (i.e., common stock and warrants) repurchase program. As of December&#160;31, 2014, $3.8 billion&#32;(on a trade-date basis) of authorized repurchase capacity remained under the program. The amount of equity that may be repurchased by the Firm is also subject to the amount that is set forth in the Firm's annual capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve as part of the CCAR process. In conjunction with the Federal Reserve's release of its 2014 CCAR results, the Firm's Board of Directors has authorized the Firm to repurchase $6.5 billion&#32;of common equity between April 1, 2014, and March 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2014, $2.1 billion&#32;(on a trade-date basis) of such repurchase capacity remains. This authorization includes shares repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's equity-based compensation plans.&nbsp;The following table sets forth the Firm's repurchases of common equity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, on a trade-date basis. There were no warrants repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2014, and 2013.The Firm may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate repurchases in accordance with the common equity repurchase program. A Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan allows the Firm to repurchase its equity during periods when it would not otherwise be repurchasing common equity &#8212; for example, during internal trading &#8220;blackout periods.&#8221; All purchases under a Rule 10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan established when the Firm is not aware of material nonpublic information.The authorization to repurchase common equity will be utilized at management's discretion, and the timing of purchases and the exact amount of common equity that may be repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legal and regulatory considerations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternative investment opportunities. The repurchase program does not include specific price targets or timetables; may be executed through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, or utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at any time.For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part II, Item 5: Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities on pages 18&#8211;19.Broker-dealer regulatory capitalJPMorgan Chase's principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (&#8220;JPMorgan Securities&#8221;) and J.P. Morgan Clearing Corp. (&#8220;JPMorgan Clearing&#8221;). JPMorgan&#160;Clearing is a subsidiary of JPMorgan Securities and provides clearing and settlement services. JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are each subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the &#8220;Net Capital Rule&#8221;). JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing are also each registered as futures commission merchants and subject to Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (&#8220;CFTC&#8221;).JPMorgan Securities and JPMorgan Clearing have elected to compute their minimum net capital requirements in accordance with the &#8220;Alternative Net Capital Requirements&#8221; of the Net Capital Rule. At December 31, 2014, JPMorgan&#160;Securities' net capital, as defined by the Net Capital Rule, was $12.8 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $10.6 billion, and JPMorgan Clearing's net capital was $7.5 billion, exceeding the minimum requirement by $5.6 billion.In addition to its minimum net capital requirement, JPMorgan Securities is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion and is also required to notify the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#8220;SEC&#8221;) in the event that tentative net capital is less than $5.0&#160;billion, in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of the Net Capital Rule. As of December 31, 2014, JPMorgan Securities had tentative net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements.J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#160;and is the Firm's principal operating subsidiary in&#160;the U.K. It has authority to engage in banking,&#160;investment banking and broker-dealer activities. J.P.&#160;Morgan&#160;Securities&#160;plc is jointly regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (&#8220;PRA&#8221;) and Financial Conduct Authority (&#8220;FCA&#8221;). Commencing January 1, 2014, J.P. Morgan Securities plc became subject to the U.K. Basel III capital rules.At December 31, 2014, J.P. Morgan Securities plc had estimated total capital of $30.1 billion; its estimated CET1 capital ratio was 10.7% and its estimated Total capital ratio was 14.1%. Both ratios exceeded the minimum transitional standards (4.0% and 8.0% for the CET1 ratio and Total capital ratio, respectively) as established by the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation (the European Union (&#8220;EU&#8221;) implementation of Basel III) as well as additional minimum requirements specified by the Prudential Regulatory Authority&#160;as Individual Capital Guidance and PRA Buffer requirements.Management's discussion and analysisLiquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its contractual and contingent obligations. Liquidity risk management is intended to ensure that the Firm has the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of funding and liquidity in support of its assets.Liquidity Risk OversightThe Firm has an independent liquidity risk oversight function whose primary objective is to provide assessment, measurement, monitoring, and control of liquidity risk across the Firm. Liquidity risk oversight is managed through a dedicated firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight group reporting into the CIO, Treasury, and Corporate (&#8220;CTC&#8221;) Chief Risk Officer (&#8220;CRO&#8221;). The CTC CRO has responsibility for firmwide Liquidity Risk Oversight and reports to the Firm's CRO. Liquidity Risk Oversight's responsibilities include but are not limited to:Risk Governance and MeasurementSpecific committees responsible for liquidity governance include firmwide ALCO as well as lines of business and regional ALCOs, and the CTC Risk Committee. For further discussion of the risk and risk-related committees, see Enterprise-wide Risk Management on pages 105&#8211;109.Internal Stress testingLiquidity stress tests are intended to ensure sufficient liquidity for the Firm under a variety of adverse scenarios. Results of stress tests are therefore considered in the formulation of the Firm's funding plan and assessment of its liquidity position. Liquidity outflow assumptions are modeled across a range of time horizons and contemplate both market and idiosyncratic stress. Standard stress tests are performed on a regular basis and ad hoc stress tests are performed in response to specific market events or concerns. In addition, stress scenarios are produced for the parent holding company and the Firm's major subsidiaries.Liquidity stress tests assume all of the Firm's contractual obligations are met and then take into consideration varying levels of access to unsecured and secured funding markets. Additionally, assumptions with respect to potential non-contractual and contingent outflows are contemplated.Liquidity ManagementTreasury is responsible for liquidity management. The primary objectives of effective liquidity management are to ensure that the Firm's core businesses are able to operate in support of client needs, meet contractual and contingent obligations through normal economic cycles as well as during stress events, ensure funding mix optimization, and &nbsp;availability of liquidity sources. The Firm manages liquidity and funding using a centralized, global approach in order to optimize liquidity sources and uses.In the context of the Firm's liquidity management, Treasury is responsible for:Contingency funding planThe Firm's contingency funding plan (&#8220;CFP&#8221;), which is reviewed by ALCO and approved by the DRPC, is a compilation of procedures and action plans for managing liquidity through stress events. The CFP incorporates the limits and indicators set by the Liquidity Risk Oversight group. These limits and indicators are reviewed regularly to identify the emergence of risks or vulnerabilities in the Firm's liquidity position. The CFP identifies the alternative contingent liquidity resources available to the Firm in a stress event.Parent holding company and subsidiary fundingThe parent holding company acts as a source of funding to its subsidiaries. The Firm's liquidity management is intended to maintain liquidity at the parent holding company, in addition to funding and liquidity raised at the subsidiary operating level, at levels sufficient to fund the operations of the parent holding company and its subsidiaries for an extended period of time in a stress environment where access to normal funding sources is disrupted. The parent holding company currently holds more than 18 months of pre-funding assuming no access to wholesale funding markets.LCR and NSFRIn December 2010, the Basel Committee introduced two new measures of liquidity risk: the liquidity coverage ratio (&#8220;LCR&#8221;), which is intended to measure the amount of &#8220;high-quality liquid assets&#8221; (&#8220;HQLA&#8221;) held by the Firm in relation to estimated net cash outflows within a 30-day period during an acute stress event; and the net stable funding ratio (&#8220;NSFR&#8221;) which is intended to measure the &#8220;available&#8221; amount of stable funding relative to the &#8220;required&#8221; amount of stable funding over a one-year horizon. The standards require that the LCR be no lower than 100% and the NSFR be greater than 100%.On September 3, 2014, the U.S. banking regulators approved the final LCR rule (&#8220;U.S. LCR&#8221;), which became effective on January 1, 2015. Under the final rules, the LCR is required to be 80% at January 1, 2015, increasing by 10% each year until reaching 100% at January 1, 2017.&#160;At December 31, 2014, the Firm was compliant with the fully phased-in U.S. LCR based on its current understanding of the final rule. The Firm's LCR may fluctuate from period-to-period due to normal flows from client activity.On October 31, 2014, the Basel Committee issued the final standard for the NSFR which will become a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. At December 31, 2014, the Firm was compliant with the NSFR based on its current understanding of the final Basel rule. The U.S. Banking Regulators are expected to issue a proposal on the NSFR that would outline requirements specific to U.S. banks.HQLAHQLA is the estimated amount of assets that qualify for inclusion in the U.S. LCR. HQLA primarily consists of cash and certain unencumbered high quality liquid assets as defined in the rule.As of December&#160;31, 2014, HQLA was estimated to be approximately $600 billion, as determined under the U.S. LCR final rule, compared with $522 billion&#32;as of December 31, 2013, which was calculated using the Basel Committee's definition of HQLA. The increase in HQLA was due to higher cash balances largely driven by higher deposit balances, partially offset by the impact of the application of the U.S. LCR rule which excludes certain types of securities that are permitted under the Basel Rules. HQLA may fluctuate from period-to-period primarily due to normal flows from client activity.The following table presents the estimated HQLA included in the U.S. LCR broken out by HQLA-eligible cash and HQLA-eligible securities as of December&#160;31, 2014.In addition to HQLA, as of December&#160;31, 2014, the Firm has approximately $321 billion of unencumbered marketable securities, such as equity securities and fixed income debt securities, available to raise liquidity, if required. Furthermore, the Firm maintains borrowing capacity at various Federal Home Loan Banks (&#8220;FHLBs&#8221;), the Federal Reserve Bank discount window and various other central banks as a result of collateral pledged by the Firm to such banks. Although available, the Firm does not view the borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank discount &nbsp;window and the various other central banks as a primary source of liquidity. As of December&#160;31, 2014, the Firm's remaining borrowing capacity at various FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Bank discount window was approximately $143 billion. This borrowing capacity excludes the benefit of securities included above in HQLA or other unencumbered securities held at the Federal Reserve Bank discount window for which the Firm has not drawn liquidity.FundingSources of fundsManagement believes that the Firm's unsecured and secured funding capacity is sufficient to meet its on- and off-balance sheet obligations.The Firm funds its global balance sheet through diverse sources of funding including a stable deposit franchise as well as secured and unsecured funding in the capital markets. The Firm's loan portfolio (aggregating approximately $757.3 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014), is funded with a portion of the Firm's deposits (aggregating approximately $1,363.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014) and&#160;through&#160;securitizations and, with respect to a portion of the Firm's real estate-related loans, with secured borrowings from the FHLBs.&#160;Deposits in excess of the amount utilized to fund loans are primarily invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio or deployed in cash or other short-term liquid investments based on their interest rate and liquidity risk characteristics. Capital markets secured financing assets and trading assets are primarily funded by the Firm's capital markets secured financing liabilities, trading liabilities and a portion of the Firm's long-term debt and stockholders' equity.In addition to funding capital markets assets, proceeds from the Firm's debt and equity issuances are used to fund certain loans, and other financial and non-financial assets, or may be invested in the Firm's investment securities portfolio. See the discussion below for additional disclosures relating to Deposits, Short-term funding, and Long-term funding and issuance.DepositsA key strength of the Firm is its diversified deposit franchise, through each of its lines of business, which provides a stable source of funding and limits reliance on the wholesale funding markets. As of December&#160;31, 2014, the Firm's loans-to-deposits ratio was 56%, compared with 57%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013.As of December&#160;31, 2014, total deposits for the Firm were $1,363.4 billion, compared with $1,287.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013 (58%&#32;of total liabilities at both December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013). The increase was due to growth in both wholesale and consumer deposits. For further information, see Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 72&#8211;73.Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm typically experiences higher customer deposit inflows at period-ends. Therefore, the Firm believes average deposit balances are more representative of deposit trends. The table below summarizes, by line of business, the period-end and average deposit balances as of and for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013.A significant portion of the Firm's deposits are consumer deposits (37%&#32;and 36%&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, respectively), which are considered particularly stable as they are less sensitive to interest rate changes or market volatility. Additionally, the majority of the Firm's institutional deposits are also considered to be stable sources of funding since they are generated from customers that maintain operating service relationships with the Firm. For further discussions of deposit and liability balance trends, see the discussion of the results for the Firm's business segments and the Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 79&#8211;104&#32;and pages 72&#8211;73, respectively.The following table summarizes short-term and long-term funding, excluding deposits, as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013, and average balances for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. For additional information, see the Balance Sheet Analysis on pages 72&#8211;73&#32;and Note 21.Short-term fundingA significant portion of the Firm's total commercial paper liabilities, approximately 64%&#32;as of December&#160;31, 2014, were not sourced from wholesale funding markets, but were originated from deposits that customers choose to sweep into commercial paper liabilities as a cash management program offered to customers of the Firm.The Firm's sources of short-term secured funding primarily consist of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are secured predominantly by high-quality securities collateral, including government-issued debt, agency debt and agency MBS, and constitute a significant portion of the federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under purchase agreements. The amounts of securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase at December&#160;31, 2014, increased predominantly due to a change in the mix of the Firm's funding sources. The decrease in average balances for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014, compared with December 31, 2013, was predominantly due to less secured financing of the Firm's investment securities portfolio, and a change in the mix of the Firm's funding sources. The balances associated with securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase fluctuate over time due to customers' investment and financing activities; the Firm's demand for financing; the ongoing management of the mix of the Firm's liabilities, including its secured and unsecured financing (for both the investment securities and market-making portfolios); and other market and portfolio factors.Long-term funding and issuanceLong-term funding provides additional sources of stable funding and liquidity for the Firm. The Firm's long-term funding plan is driven by expected client activity, liquidity considerations, and regulatory requirements. Long-term funding objectives include maintaining diversification, maximizing market access and optimizing funding costs, as well as maintaining a certain level of pre-funding at the parent holding company. The Firm evaluates various funding markets, tenors and currencies in creating its optimal long-term funding plan.The significant majority of the Firm's long-term unsecured funding is issued by the parent holding company to provide maximum flexibility in support of both bank and nonbank subsidiary funding. The following table summarizes long-term unsecured issuance and maturities or redemptions for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. For additional information, see Note 21.&nbsp;In addition, from January 1, 2015, through February&#160;24, 2015, the Firm issued $10.1 billion of senior notes.The Firm raises secured long-term funding through securitization of consumer credit card loans and advances from the FHLBs. It may also in the future raise long-term funding through securitization of residential mortgages, auto loans and student loans, which will increase funding and investor diversity.The following table summarizes the securitization issuance and FHLB advances and their respective maturities or redemption for the years ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013. Management's discussion and analysisThe Firm's wholesale businesses also securitize loans for client-driven transactions; those client-driven loan securitizations are not considered to be a source of funding for the Firm and are not included in the table above. For further description of the client-driven loan securitizations, see Note 16.Credit ratingsThe cost and availability of financing are influenced by credit ratings. Reductions in these ratings could have an adverse effect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or &nbsp;funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to the Firm. Additionally, the Firm's funding requirements for VIEs and other third party commitments may be adversely affected by a decline in credit ratings. For additional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on page 74, and Credit risk, liquidity risk and credit-related contingent features in Note 6.The credit ratings of the parent holding company and the Firm's principal bank and nonbank subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014, were as follows.Downgrades of the Firm's long-term ratings by one or two notches could result in a downgrade of the Firm's short-term ratings. If this were to occur, the Firm believes its cost of funds could increase and access to certain funding markets could be reduced as noted above. The nature and magnitude of the impact of ratings downgrades depends on numerous contractual and&#32;behavioral factors (which the Firm believes are incorporated in its liquidity risk and stress testing metrics). The Firm believes it maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a potential decrease in funding capacity due to ratings downgrades.JPMorgan Chase's unsecured debt does not contain requirements that would call for an acceleration of payments, maturities or changes in the structure of the existing debt, provide any limitations on future borrowings or require additional collateral, based on unfavorable changes in the Firm's credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, or stock price.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diverse funding sources, and disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. Rating agencies continue to evaluate economic and geopolitical trends, regulatory developments, rating uplift assumptions surrounding government support, future profitability, risk management practices, and litigation matters, as well as their broader ratings methodologies. Changes in any of these factors could lead to changes in the Firm's credit ratings.&nbsp;On September 18, 2014, S&P revised its ratings methodology for hybrid capital securities issued by financial institutions, and on September 29, 2014, the ratings of the Firm's hybrid capital securities (including trust preferred securities and preferred stock) were lowered by 1 notch from BBB to BBB-, reflecting the new methodology. Furthermore, S&P has announced a Request for Comment on a proposed change to rating criteria related to additional loss absorbing capacity. In addition, Moody's and Fitch are in the process of reviewing their ratings methodologies: Moody's has announced a Request for Comment on the revision to its Bank Rating Methodology and Fitch has announced a review of the ratings differential that it applies between bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries.Although the Firm closely monitors and endeavors to manage, to the extent it is able, factors influencing its credit ratings, there is no assurance that its credit ratings will not be changed in the future.JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding its reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment to ascertain the appropriate carrying value of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established policies and control procedures intended to ensure that estimation methods, including any judgments made as part of such methods, are well-controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from period to period. The methods used and judgments made reflect, among other factors, the nature of the assets or liabilities and the related business and risk management strategies, which may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates for determining the carrying value of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the retained consumer and wholesale loan portfolios, as well as the Firm's consumer and wholesale lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the carrying value of the Firm's loan assets to reflect probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Similarly, the allowance for lending-related commitments is established to cover probable credit losses inherent in the lending-related commitments portfolio as of the balance sheet date.The allowance for loan losses includes an asset-specific component, a formula-based component, and a component related to PCI loans. The determination of each of these components involves significant judgment on a number of matters, as discussed below. For further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing the Firm's allowance for credit losses, see Note 15.Asset-specific componentThe asset-specific allowance for loan losses for each of the Firm's portfolio segments is generally measured as the difference between the recorded investment in the impaired loan and the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected, discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate. Estimating the timing and amounts of future cash flows is highly judgmental as these cash flow projections rely upon estimates such as redefault rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These estimates are, in turn, dependent on factors such as the level of future home prices, the duration of current overall economic conditions, and other macroeconomic and portfolio-specific factors. All of these estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.&nbsp;Formula-based component - Consumer loans and lending-related commitments, excluding PCI loansThe formula-based allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is calculated by applying statistical credit loss factors to outstanding principal balances over an estimated loss emergence period to arrive at an estimate of incurred credit losses in the portfolio. The loss emergence period represents the time period between the date at which the loss is estimated to have been incurred and the ultimate realization of that loss (through a charge-off). Estimated loss emergence periods may vary by product and may change over time; management applies judgment in estimating loss emergence periods, using available credit information and trends. In addition, management applies judgment to the statistical loss estimates for each loan portfolio category, using delinquency trends and other risk characteristics to estimate the total incurred credit losses in the portfolio. Management uses additional statistical methods and considers portfolio and collateral valuation trends to review the appropriateness of the primary statistical loss estimate.The statistical calculation is then adjusted to take into consideration model imprecision, external factors and current economic events that have occurred but that are not yet reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation; these adjustments are accomplished in part by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment. However, it is difficult to predict whether historical loss experience is indicative of future loss levels. Management applies judgment in making this adjustment, taking into account uncertainties associated with current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards, borrower behavior, the potential impact of payment recasts within the HELOC portfolio, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the portfolio. In certain instances, the interrelationships between these factors create further uncertainties. For example, the performance of a HELOC that experiences a payment recast may be affected by both the quality of underwriting standards applied in originating the loan and the general economic conditions in effect at the time of the payment recast. For junior lien products, management considers the delinquency and/or modification status of any senior liens in determining the adjustment. The application of different inputs into the statistical calculation, and the assumptions used by management to adjust the statistical calculation, are subject to management judgment, and emphasizing one input or assumption over another, or considering other inputs or assumptions, could affect the estimate of the allowance for loan losses for the consumer credit portfolio.Overall, the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio, including credit card, is sensitive to changes in the economic environment (e.g., unemployment rates), delinquency rates, the realizable value of collateral (e.g., Management's discussion and analysishousing prices), FICO scores, borrower behavior and other risk factors. While all of these factors are important determinants of overall allowance levels, changes in the various factors may not occur at the same time or at the same rate, or changes may be directionally inconsistent such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in the other. In addition, changes in these factors would not necessarily be consistent across all geographies or product types. Finally, it is difficult to predict the extent to which changes in these factors would ultimately affect the frequency of losses, the severity of losses or both.PCI loansIn connection with the Washington Mutual transaction, JPMorgan Chase acquired certain PCI loans, which are accounted for as described in Note 14. The allowance for loan losses for the PCI portfolio is based on quarterly estimates of the amount of principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected over the estimated remaining lives of the loans.These cash flow projections are based on estimates regarding default rates (including redefault rates on modified loans), loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current and expected future market conditions. These estimates are dependent on assumptions regarding the level of future home price declines, and the duration of current overall economic conditions, among other factors. These estimates and assumptions require significant management judgment and certain assumptions are highly subjective.Formula-based component - Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe Firm's methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for lending-related commitments requires the early identification of credits that are deteriorating. The formula-based component of the allowance calculation for wholesale loans and lending-related components is the product of an estimated PD and estimated LGD. These factors are determined based on the credit quality and specific attributes of the Firm's loans and lending-related commitments to each obligor. The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans and lending-related commitments. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan or lending-related commitment, among the factors considered are the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings, the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on an evaluation of historical and current information and involve subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another or considering additional factors could affect the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.&nbsp;PD estimates are based on observable external through-the-cycle data, using credit rating agency default statistics. A LGD estimate is assigned to each loan or lending-related commitment. The estimate represents the amount of economic loss if the obligor were to default. The type of obligor, quality of collateral, and the seniority of the Firm's loans in the obligor's capital structure affect LGD. LGD estimates are based on the Firm's history of actual credit losses over more than one credit cycle. Changes to the time period used for PD and LGD estimates (for example, point-in-time loss versus longer views of the credit cycle) could also affect the allowance for credit losses.The Firm applies judgment in estimating PD and LGD used in calculating the allowances. Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical loss experience in its models for estimating the allowances, but differences in loan characteristics between the Firm's specific loan portfolio and those reflected in external and Firm-specific historical data could affect loss estimates. Estimates of PD and LGD are subject to periodic refinement based on any changes to underlying external and Firm-specific historical data. The use of different inputs would change the amount of the allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the modeled loss estimates, taking into consideration model imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors. Historical experience of both LGD and PD are considered when estimating these adjustments. Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries also are incorporated where relevant. These estimates are based on management's view of uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality of underwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio.Allowance for credit losses sensitivityAs noted above, the Firm's allowance for credit losses is sensitive to numerous factors, depending on the portfolio. Changes in economic conditions or in the Firm's assumptions could affect its estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. For example, changes in the inputs below would have the following effects on the Firm's modeled loss estimates as of December&#160;31, 2014, without consideration of any offsetting or correlated effects of other inputs in the Firm's allowance for loan losses:imply an increase to modeled annual loss estimates of approximately $100 million.The purpose of these sensitivity analyses is to provide an indication of the isolated impacts of hypothetical alternative assumptions on modeled loss estimates. The changes in the inputs presented above are not intended to imply management's expectation of future deterioration of those risk factors. In addition, these analyses are not intended to estimate changes in the overall allowance for loan losses, which would also be influenced by the judgment management applies to the modeled loss estimates to reflect the uncertainty and imprecision of these modeled loss estimates based on then current circumstances and conditions.It is difficult to estimate how potential changes in specific factors might affect the overall allowance for credit losses because management considers a variety of factors and inputs in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Changes in these factors and inputs may not occur at the same rate and may not be consistent across all geographies or product types, and changes in factors may be directionally inconsistent, such that improvement in one factor may offset deterioration in other factors. In addition, it is difficult to predict how changes in specific economic conditions or assumptions could affect borrower behavior or other factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for credit losses. Given the process the Firm follows and the judgments made in evaluating the risk factors related to its loans and credit card loss estimates, management believes that its current estimate of the allowance for credit loss is appropriate.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryJPMorgan Chase carries a portion of its assets and liabilities at fair value. The majority of such assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis, including certain mortgage, home equity and other loans, where the carrying value is based on the fair value of the underlying collateral.&nbsp;Assets measured at fair valueThe following table includes the Firm's assets measured at fair value and the portion of such assets that are classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. For further information, see Note 3.ValuationDetails of the Firm's processes for determining fair value are set out in Note 3. Estimating fair value requires the application of judgment. The type and level of judgment required is largely dependent on the amount of observable market information available to the Firm. For instruments valued using internally developed models that use significant unobservable inputs and are therefore classified within level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, judgments used to estimate fair value are more significant than those required when estimating the fair value of instruments classified within levels 1 and 2.In arriving at an estimate of fair value for an instrument within level 3, management must first determine the appropriate model to use. Second, the lack of observability of certain significant inputs requires management to assess all relevant empirical data in deriving valuation inputs &#8212; including, for example, transaction details, yield curves, interest rates, prepayment rates, default rates, volatilities, correlations, equity or debt prices, valuations of comparable instruments, foreign exchange rates and credit curves. For further discussion of the valuation of level 3 instruments, including unobservable inputs used, see Note 3.For instruments classified in levels 2 and 3, management judgment must be applied to assess the appropriate level of valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty credit quality, the Firm's credit-worthiness, market funding rates, liquidity considerations, unobservable parameters, and for portfolios that meet specified criteria, the size of the net open risk Management's discussion and analysisposition. The judgments made are typically affected by the type of product and its specific contractual terms, and the level of liquidity for the product or within the market as a whole. For further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Firm see Note 3.Imprecision in estimating unobservable market inputs or other factors can affect the amount of gain or loss recorded for a particular position. Furthermore, while the Firm believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with those of other market participants, the methods and assumptions used reflect management judgment and may vary across the Firm's businesses and portfolios.The Firm uses various methodologies and assumptions in the determination of fair value. The use of methodologies or assumptions different than those used by the Firm could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. For a detailed discussion of the Firm's valuation process and hierarchy, and its determination of fair value for individual financial instruments, see Note 3.Goodwill impairmentUnder U.S. GAAP, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment at least annually. The Firm's process and methodology used to conduct goodwill impairment testing is described in Note 17.Management applies significant judgment when estimating the fair value of its reporting units. Estimates of fair value are dependent upon estimates of (a) the future earnings potential of the Firm's reporting units, including the estimated effects of regulatory and legislative changes, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, (b) long-term growth rates and (c) the relevant cost of equity. Imprecision in estimating these factors can affect the estimated fair value of the reporting units.During 2014, the Firm recognized an impairment of the Private Equity business' goodwill totaling $276 million. Remaining goodwill of $101 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;associated with the Private Equity business was disposed of as part of the Private Equity sale completed in January 2015. For further information on the Private Equity sale, see Note 2.Based upon the updated valuations for all of its reporting units, the Firm concluded that the goodwill allocated to its other reporting units was not impaired at December&#160;31, 2014. The fair values of these reporting units exceeded their carrying values. Except for the Firm's mortgage banking business, the excess fair value as a percentage of carrying value ranged from approximately 20-210% for the other reporting units and did not indicate a significant risk of goodwill impairment based on current projections and valuations. The fair value of the Firm's Mortgage Banking business exceeded its carrying value by less than 5% and accordingly, the associated goodwill of approximately $2 billion remains at an elevated risk for goodwill impairment.&nbsp;The projections for all of the Firm's reporting units are consistent with the short-term assumptions discussed in the Business outlook on pages 66&#8211;67, and in the longer term, incorporate a set of macroeconomic assumptions and the Firm's best estimates of long-term growth and returns of its businesses. Where possible, the Firm uses third-party and peer data to benchmark its assumptions and estimates.Deterioration in economic market conditions, increased estimates of the effects of recent regulatory or legislative changes, or additional regulatory or legislative changes may result in declines in projected business performance beyond management's current expectations. For example, in the Firm's Mortgage Banking business, such declines could result from increases in primary mortgage interest rates, lower mortgage origination volume, higher costs to resolve foreclosure-related matters or from deterioration in economic conditions, including decreases in home prices that result in increased credit losses. Declines in business performance, increases in equity capital requirements, or increases in the estimated cost of equity, could cause the estimated fair values of the Firm's reporting units or their associated goodwill to decline in the future, which could result in a material impairment charge to earnings in a future period related to some portion of the associated goodwill.For additional information on goodwill, see Note 17.Income taxesJPMorgan Chase is subject to the income tax laws of the various jurisdictions in which it operates, including U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws are often complex and may be subject to different interpretations. To determine the financial statement impact of accounting for income taxes, including the provision for income tax expense and unrecognized tax benefits, JPMorgan Chase must make assumptions and judgments about how to interpret and apply these complex tax laws to numerous transactions and business events, as well as make judgments regarding the timing of when certain items may affect taxable income in the U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.JPMorgan Chase's interpretations of tax laws around the world are subject to review and examination by the various taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where the Firm operates, and disputes may occur regarding its view on a tax position. These disputes over interpretations with the various taxing authorities may be settled by audit, administrative appeals or adjudication in the court systems of the tax jurisdictions in which the Firm operates. JPMorgan Chase regularly reviews whether it may be assessed additional income taxes as a result of the resolution of these matters, and the Firm records additional reserves as appropriate. In addition, the Firm may revise its estimate of income taxes due to changes in income tax laws, legal interpretations and tax planning strategies. It is possible that revisions in the Firm's estimate of income taxes may materially affect the Firm's results of operations in any reporting period.The Firm's provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Deferred taxes arise from differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting versus income tax return purposes. Deferred tax assets are recognized if, in management's judgment, their realizability is determined to be more likely than not. The Firm has also recognized deferred tax assets in connection with certain NOLs. The Firm performs regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management's estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income, which also incorporates various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize NOLs before they expire. In connection with these reviews, if it is determined that a deferred tax asset is not realizable, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance may be reversed in a subsequent reporting period if the Firm determines that, based on revised estimates of future taxable income or changes in tax planning strategies, it is more likely than not that all or part of the deferred tax asset will become realizable. As of December&#160;31, 2014, management has determined it is more likely than not that the Firm will realize its deferred tax assets, net of the existing valuation allowance.JPMorgan Chase does not record U.S. federal income taxes on the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, to the extent that such earnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time. Changes to the income tax rates applicable to these non-U.S. subsidiaries may have a material impact on the effective tax rate in a future period if such changes were to occur.&nbsp;The Firm adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits as necessary when additional information becomes available. Uncertain tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized upon settlement. It is possible that the reassessment of JPMorgan Chase's unrecognized tax benefits may have a material impact on its effective tax rate in the period in which the reassessment occurs.For additional information on income taxes, see Note 26.Litigation reservesFor a description of the significant estimates and judgments associated with establishing litigation reserves, see Note 31.Management's discussion and analysisAmendments to the consolidation analysisIn February 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (&#8220;FASB&#8221;) issued guidance regarding consolidation of legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. The guidance eliminates the deferral issued by the FASB in February 2010 of the accounting guidance for VIEs for certain investment funds, including mutual funds, private equity funds and hedge funds. In addition, the guidance amends the evaluation of fees paid to a decision maker or a service provider, and exempts certain money market funds from consolidation. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2016 with early adoption permitted. The Firm is currently evaluating the potential impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.Reclassification of residential real estate collateralized consumer mortgage loans upon foreclosure and classification of certain government-guaranteed mortgage loans upon foreclosureIn January 2014, the FASB issued guidance which clarified the timing of when a creditor is considered to have taken physical possession of residential real estate collateral for a consumer mortgage loan, resulting in the reclassification of the loan receivable to real estate owned. The final standard also requires disclosure of outstanding foreclosed residential real estate and the amount of the recorded investment in residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of foreclosure. In August 2014, the FASB issued separate guidance clarifying the classification and measurement of certain foreclosed government-guaranteed mortgage loans. Under the final standard, certain foreclosed government-insured mortgage loan amounts were reclassified on the balance sheet as a receivable from the guarantor at the guaranteed amount. The Firm early adopted both of these new standards in the third quarter of 2014 with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of January 1, 2014; the adoption of these standards (and related reclassification adjustment) had no material impact on the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements.Measuring the financial assets and financial liabilities of a consolidated collateralized financing entityIn August 2014, the FASB issued guidance to address diversity in the accounting for differences in the measurement of the fair values of financial assets and liabilities of consolidated financing VIEs. The new guidance provides an alternative for consolidated financing VIEs to elect: (1) to measure their financial assets and liabilities separately under existing U.S. GAAP for fair value measurement with any differences in such fair values reflected in earnings; or (2) to measure both their financial assets and liabilities using the more observable of the fair value of the financial assets or the fair value of the financial liabilities. The guidance will become effective in the first quarter of 2016, with early adoption permitted. The &nbsp;adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements.Repurchase agreements and similar transactionsIn June 2014, the FASB issued guidance that amends the accounting for certain secured financing transactions, and requires enhanced disclosures with respect to transactions recognized as sales in which exposure to the derecognized asset is retained through a separate agreement with the counterparty. In addition, the guidance requires enhanced disclosures with respect to the types and quality of financial assets pledged in secured financing transactions. The guidance will become effective in the first quarter of 2015, except for the disclosures regarding the types and quality of financial assets pledged, which will become effective in the second quarter of 2015. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements.Revenue recognition &#8211; revenue from contracts with customersIn May 2014, the FASB issued revenue recognition guidance that is intended to create greater consistency with respect to how and when revenue from contracts with customers is shown in the statements of income. The guidance requires that revenue from contracts with customers be recognized upon delivery of a good or service based on the amount of consideration expected to be received, and requires additional disclosures about revenue. The guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2017 and early adoption is prohibited. The Firm is currently evaluating the potential impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.Reporting discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entityIn April 2014, the FASB issued guidance regarding the reporting of discontinued operations. The guidance changes the criteria for determining whether a disposition qualifies for discontinued operations presentation. It also requires enhanced disclosures about discontinued operations and significant dispositions that do not qualify to be presented as discontinued operations. The guidance will become effective in the first quarter of 2015. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Firm's Consolidated Financial Statements.Investments in qualified affordable housing projectsIn January 2014, the FASB issued guidance regarding the accounting for investments in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. The guidance replaces the effective yield method and allows companies to make an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of its investments in proportion to the tax credits and other benefits received if certain criteria are met, and to present the amortization as a component of income tax expense. The guidance will become effective in the first quarter of 2015 and is required to be applied retrospectively, such that the Firm's results of operations for prior periods will be revised to reflect the guidance.The Firm intends to adopt the guidance for all qualifying investments.&#160;The adoption of this guidance is estimated to reduce retained earnings by approximately $230 million. The Firm expects that reported other income and income tax expense will each increase as a result of presenting the amortization of the initial cost of its investments as component of income tax expense. The amount of this increase in each period depends on the size and characteristics of the Firm's portfolio of affordable housing investments; the estimated increase for 2014 is approximately $900 million. The effect of this guidance on the Firm's net income is not expected to be material.Management's discussion and analysisIn the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques, primarily based on internal models with significant observable market parameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarily energy-related.The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014.&nbsp;The following table indicates the maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at December&#160;31, 2014.<hr 
