&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.This section of the Annual Report provides management's discussion and analysis (&#147;MD&A&#148;) ofthe financial condition and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms onpages 134&#150;135 for definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included inthis Annual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the PrivateSecurities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs andexpectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject tosignificant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorganChase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements.Certain of such risks and uncertainties are described herein (see Forward-looking statements onpage 135 of this Annual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on Form&nbsp;10&#150;K (&#147;Form10&#150;K&#148;) for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2005, in Part&nbsp;I, Item&nbsp;1A: Risk factors, to which referenceis hereby made.&nbsp;Introduction&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#147;JPMorgan Chase&#148; or the &#147;Firm&#148;), a financial holding company incorporatedunder Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of the largestbanking institutions in the United States, with $1.2 trillion in assets, $107&nbsp;billion instockholders' equity and operations worldwide. The Firm is a leader in investment banking,financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing, asset and wealthmanagement and private equity. Under the JPMorgan, Chase and Bank One brands, the Firm servesmillions of customers in the United States and many of the world's most prominent corporate,institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association(&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank&#148;), a national banking association with branches in 17 states; and Chase Bank USA, National Association, anational bank that is the Firm's credit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbanksubsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (&#147;JPMSI&#148;), the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six businesssegments, as well as Corporate. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank,Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services, and Asset & Wealth Management. The Firm'sconsumer businesses comprise Retail Financial Services and Card Services. A description of theFirm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective clientbases, follows.Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth of theInvestment Bank client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) hasextensive relationships with corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutionalinvestors worldwide. The Firm provides a full range of investment banking products and services inall major capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raisingin equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities andderivative instruments. The Investment Bank also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietaryinvesting and trading activities.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;) includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking, Auto &Education Finance and Insurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm provides consumers andsmall businesses with a broad range of financial products and services including deposits,investments, loans and insurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real estate loanproducts and is one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Consumer & SmallBusiness Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 stateswith 2,641 branches and 7,312 automated teller machines (&#147;ATMs&#148;). Auto & Education Finance isthe largest noncaptive originator of automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans forcollege students. Through its Insurance operations, the Firm sells and underwrites an extensiverange of financial protection products and investment alternatives, including life insurance,annuities and debt protection products.Card ServicesCard Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United States, with morethan 110&nbsp;million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchant acquirer. CS offers a widevariety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, including cards issued on behalf ofmany well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels, universities, retailers and otherfinancial institutions.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) serves more than 25,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenues generally ranging from $10million to $2&nbsp;billion. While most Middle Market clients are within the Retail Financial Servicesfootprint, CB also covers larger corporations, as well as local governments and financialinstitutions on a national basis. CB is a market leader with superior client penetration across thebusinesses it serves. Local market presence, coupled with industry expertise and excellent clientservice and risk management, enable CB to offer superior financial advice. Partnership with otherJPMorgan Chase businesses positions CB to deliver broad product capabilities &#150; including lending,treasury services, investment banking, and asset and wealth management &#150; and meet its clients'financial needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a global leader in providing transaction, investment andinformation services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investorsworldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the world and a leading globalcustodian. The Treasury Services (&#147;TS&#148;) business provides a variety of cash management products,trade finance and logistics solutions, wholesale card products, and short-term liquidity managementtools. The Investor Services (&#147;IS&#148;) business provides custody, fund services, securities lending,and performance measurement and execution products. The Institutional Trust Services (&#147;ITS&#148;)business provides trustee, depository and administrative services for debt and equity issuers. TSpartners with the Commercial Banking, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & WealthManagement businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenues are included inother segments' results. TSS combined the management of the IS and ITS businesses under the nameWorldwide Securities Services (&#147;WSS&#148;) to create an integrated franchise which provides custody andinvestor services as well as securities clearance and trust services to clients globally. BeginningJanuary&nbsp;1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Asset & Wealth ManagementAsset & Wealth Management (&#147;AWM&#148;) provides investment advice and management for institutions andindividuals. With Assets under supervision of $1.1 trillion, AWM is one of the largest asset andwealth managers in the world. AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses:institutions through JPMorgan Asset Management; ultra-high-net-worth clients through the PrivateBank; high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services; and retail clients through JPMorganAsset Management. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios. AWM hasglobal investment expertise in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity andliquidity, including both money market instruments and bank deposits. AWM also provides trust andestate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, and retirement services forcorporations and individuals.2005 Business eventsCollegiate Funding ServicesOn March&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, for approximately$663&nbsp;million, Collegiate Funding Services, a leader in student loan servicing and consolidation. This acquisition will enable the Firm tocreate a comprehensive education finance business.BrownCoOn November&nbsp;30, 2005, JPMorgan Chase sold BrownCo, an on-line deep-discount brokerage business, toE*TRADE Financial for a cash purchase price of $1.6&nbsp;billion. JPMorgan Chase recognized an after-taxgain of $752&nbsp;million.Sears Canada credit card businessOn November&nbsp;15, 2005, JPMorgan Chase purchased Sears Canada Inc.'s credit card operation, includingboth the private-label card accounts and the co-branded Sears MasterCard&#174; accounts. Thecredit card operation includes approximately 10&nbsp;million accounts with $2.2&nbsp;billion (CAD$2.5billion) in managed loans. Sears Canada and JPMorgan Chase entered into an ongoing arrangementunder which JPMorgan Chase will offer private-label and co-branded credit cards to both new andexisting customers of Sears Canada.Chase Merchant Services, Paymentech integrationOn October&nbsp;5, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corp. completed the integration of the companies'jointly owned Chase Merchant Services and Paymentech merchant businesses, to be operated under thename of Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC. The joint venture is the largest financial transactionprocessor in the U.S. for businesses accepting credit card payments via traditional point of sale,Internet, catalog and recurring billing. As a result of the integration into a joint venture,Paymentech has been deconsolidated and JPMorgan Chase's ownership interest in this joint venture isaccounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.Neovest Holdings, Inc.On September&nbsp;1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase completed its acquisition of Neovest Holdings, Inc., aprovider of high-performance trading technology and direct market access. This transaction willenable the Investment Bank to offer a leading, broker-neutral trading platform across asset classesto institutional investors, asset managers and hedge funds.Enron litigation settlementOn June&nbsp;14, 2005, JPMorgan Chase announced that it had reached an agreement in principle to settle,for $2.2&nbsp;billion, the Enron class action litigation captioned Newby v. Enron Corp. The Firm alsorecorded a nonoperating charge of $1.9&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) to cover the settlement and to increaseits reserves for certain other remaining material legal matters.VasteraOn April&nbsp;1, 2005, JPMorgan Chase acquired Vastera, a provider of global trade management solutions,for approximately $129&nbsp;million. Vastera's business was combined with the Logistics and TradeServices businesses of TSS' Treasury Services unit. Vastera automates trade management processesassociated with the physical movement of goods internationally; the acquisition enables TS to offermanagement of information and processes in support of physical goods movement, together withfinancial settlement.WorldCom litigation settlementOn March&nbsp;17, 2005, JPMorgan Chase settled, for $2.0&nbsp;billion, the WorldCom, Inc. class actionlitigation. In connection with the settlement, JPMorgan Chase increased the Firm's Litigationreserve by $900&nbsp;million.JPMorgan PartnersOn March&nbsp;1, 2005, the Firm announced that the management team of JPMorgan Partners, LLC, a privateequity unit of the Firm, will become independent when it completes the investment of the current$6.5&nbsp;billion Global Fund, which it advises. The buyout and growth equity professionals of JPMorganPartners will form a new independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC, and the venture professionals willseparately form a new independent firm, Panorama Capital, LLC. JPMorgan Chase has committed toinvest the lesser of $875&nbsp;million or 24.9% of the limited partnership interests in the fund to beraised by CCMP Capital, and has committed to invest the lesser of $50&nbsp;million or 24.9% of thelimited partnership interests in the fund to be raised by Panorama Capital. The investmentprofessionals of CCMP and Panorama will continue to manage the JPMP investments pursuant to amanagement agreement with the Firm.CazenoveOn February&nbsp;28, 2005, JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (&#147;Cazenove&#148;) formed a businesspartnership which combined Cazenove's investment banking business and JPMorgan Chase's U.K.-basedinvestment banking business in order to provide investment banking services in the United Kingdomand Ireland. The new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.Subsequent eventsSale of insurance underwriting businessOn February&nbsp;7, 2006, JPMorgan Chase announced that the Firm has agreed to sell its life insurance andannuity underwriting businesses to Protective Life Corporation for a cash purchase price ofapproximately $1.2&nbsp;billion. The sale, which includes both the heritage Chase insurance business andthe life business that Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in 2003, is subject to normalregulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2006. JPMorgan Chaseanticipates the transaction will have no material impact on earnings.&nbsp; &nbsp;Executive overview&nbsp;This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and maynot contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a morecomplete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the liquidity, capital,credit and market risks, and the critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and the lines ofbusiness, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseBusiness overview2005 represented the Firm's first full year as a merged company; 2004 included six months ofthe combined Firm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. Therefore,comparisons between the two years are significantly affected by the Merger. In addition, other keyfactors affecting 2005 results included litigation charges to settle the Enron and Worldcom classactions, a special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina, the impact of the newbankruptcy legislation on credit card charge-offs and the sale of BrownCo, as well as the globaleconomic and market environments.In 2005, the Firm successfully completed a number of milestones in the execution of its Mergerintegration plan. Key accomplishments included: launching a national advertising campaign thatintroduced a modernized Chase brand; the conversion of 1,400 Bank One branches, 3,400 ATMs andmillions of Bank One credit cards to the Chase brand; completing the operating platform conversionin Card Services; and executing a major systems conversion in Texas that united 400 Chase and BankOne branches and over 800 ATMs under common systems and branding. These accomplishments resulted incontinued efficiencies from the Merger, and the Firm made significant progress toward reaching themerger-related savings target of approximately $3.0&nbsp;billion by the end of 2007. The Firm realizedapproximately $1.5&nbsp;billion of merger savings in 2005, bringingestimated cumulative savings to $1.9&nbsp;billion, and the annualized run-rate of savingsentering 2006 is approximately $2.2&nbsp;billion. In order to achieve these savings, the Firm expensedmerger-related costs of $722&nbsp;million during the year, bringing the total cumulative amount expensedsince the Merger announcement to $2.1&nbsp;billion. Management continues to estimate remaining Mergercosts of approximately $0.9&nbsp;billion to $1.4&nbsp;billion, which are expected to be expensed over thenext two years.The Board of Directors announced in the fourth quarter that James Dimon, President and ChiefOperating Officer, would succeed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William B. Harrison, Jr. asChief Executive Officer on December&nbsp;31, 2005. Mr.&nbsp;Harrison remains Chairman of the Board.The Firm reported 2005 net income of $8.5&nbsp;billion, or $2.38 per share, compared with net income of$4.5&nbsp;billion, or $1.55 per share, for 2004. The return on common equity was 8% compared with 6% in2004.Results included $2.0&nbsp;billion in after-tax charges, or $0.57 per share, which included nonoperatinglitigation charges of $1.6&nbsp;billion and Merger costs of $448&nbsp;million. Excluding these charges,operating earnings were $10.5&nbsp;billion, or $2.95 per share, and return on common equity was 10%.Operating earnings represent business results without merger-related costs, nonoperatinglitigation-related charges and recoveries, and costs related to conformance of accounting policies.In 2005, both the U.S. and global economies continued to expand. Gross domestic product increasedby an estimated 3.0% globally with the U.S. economy growing at a slightly faster pace. The U.S.economy experienced continued rising short-term interest rates, which were driven by FederalReserve Board actions during the course of the year. The federal funds rate increased from 2.25% to4.25% during the year, and the yield curve flattened as long term interest rates remained broadlysteady. Equity markets, both domestic and international, reflected positive performance, with theS&P 500 up 3% and international indices increasing over 20%. Capital markets activity was verystrong during 2005, with debt and equity underwriting and merger and acquisition activitysurpassing 2004 levels. The U.S. consumer sector showed continued strength buoyed by overalleconomic strength, which benefited from good levels of employment and retail sales that increasedversus the prior year. This strength came despite slowing mortgage origination and refinanceactivity as well as significantly higher bankruptcy filings due to the new bankruptcy legislationwhich became effective in October&nbsp;2005.The 2005 economic environment was a contributing factor to the performance of the Firm and each ofits businesses. The overall economic expansion and strong level of capital markets activity helpedto drive new business volume and sales growth within each business. The interest rate environmentnegatively affected both wholesale and consumer loan spreads, though wholesale liability spreadswidened over the course of the year, benefiting Treasury & Securities Services and CommercialBanking. Additionally, the credit quality of the loan portfolio continued to remain strong,reflecting the beneficial economic environment, despite the impacts of accelerated bankruptcyfilings and Hurricane Katrina.The discussion that follows highlights, on an operating basis and excluding the impact of theMerger, the performance of each of the Firm's lines of business.Investment Bank operating earnings benefited from higher revenue and a continued benefit from theProvision for credit losses, which were offset by increased compensation expense. Revenue growthwas driven by higher, although volatile, fixed income trading results, stronger equity commissionsand improved investment banking fees, all of which benefited from strength in global capital marketsactivity. Investment banking fees had particular strength in advisory, reflecting in part thebenefit of the business partnership with Cazenove, which was formed in February of 2005. As in2004, the&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Provision for credit losses in 2005 was a benefit to earnings, mainly due to continuedimprovement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio. The increase in expense was primarily theresult of higher performance-based incentive compensation due to increased revenues.Retail Financial Services operating earnings benefited from the overall strength of the U.S.economy, which led to increased deposit, home equity and mortgage balances. In addition to thebenefit from higher balances, revenues increased due to improved mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;)risk management results. Expenses declined, reflecting ongoing efficiency improvements across allbusinesses even as investments continued in retail banking distribution and sales, with the netaddition during the year of 133 branch offices, 662 ATMs and over 1,300 personal bankers. Thesebenefits were offset partially by narrower spreads on loans due to the interest rate environmentand net losses associated with loan portfolio sale activity. The provision for credit lossesbenefited from improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfolios and from loan portfoliosales, but was affected negatively by a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina.Card Services operating earnings benefited from lower expenses driven by merger savings and greaterefficiencies from the operating platform conversion, which resulted in lower processing andcompensation costs. Revenue benefited from higher loan balances and customer charge volumeresulting from marketing initiatives and increased consumer spending. Partially offsetting thisgrowth were narrower spreads on loan balances due to an increase in accounts in their introductoryrate period and higher interest rates. The managed provision for credit losses increased due torecord levels of bankruptcy-related charge-offs related to the new bankruptcy legislation thatbecame effective in October&nbsp;2005 and a special provision related to Hurricane Katrina. Despitethese events, underlying credit quality remained strong, with a managed net charge-off ratio of5.21%, down from 5.27% in 2004.Commercial Banking operating earnings benefited from wider spreads and higher volumes related toliability balances and increased loan balances. Partially offsetting these benefits were narrowerloan spreads related to competitive pressures in some markets and lower deposit-related fees due tohigher interest rates. The provision for credit losses increased due to a special provision relatedto Hurricane Katrina, increased loan balances and refinements in the data used to estimate theallowance for credit losses. However, the underlying credit quality in the portfolio was strongthroughout the year, as evidenced by lower net charge-offs and nonperforming loans compared with2004.Treasury & Securities Services operating earnings grew significantly in 2005. Revenue growthresulted from business growth and widening spreads on, and growth in, liability balances, all ofwhich benefited from global economic strength and capital market activity. Partially offsettingthis growth were lower deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates. Expenses decreased due tolower software impairment charges, partially offset by higher compensation expense resulting fromnew business growth, the Vastera acquisition completed in April, and by charges taken in the secondquarter to terminate a client contract.Asset & Wealth Management operating earnings benefited from net asset inflows and assetappreciation, both the result of favorable capital markets and improved investment performance,which resulted in an increased level of Assets under management. Results also benefited from theacquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management in the fourth quarter of2004 and growth in deposit and loan balances. Expenses increased due primarily to the acquisitionof Highbridge and higher performance-based incentive compensation related to increased revenue.Corporate segment operating earnings were affected negatively by repositioning of the TreasuryInvestment portfolio. This decline was offset partially by the gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3&nbsp;billion(pre-tax) and improved Private Equity results.The Firmhad, at year-end, total stockholders' equity of $107&nbsp;billion, and a Tier 1 capital ratioof 8.5%. The Firm purchased $3.4&nbsp;billion, or 93.5&nbsp;millionshares of common stock during the year.2006 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's results to differ materially from those set forth insuch forward-looking statements.JPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2006 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global economy,financial markets and the geopolitical environment, all of which are integrally linked. While theFirm considers outcomes for, and has contingency plans to respond to, stress environments, thebasic outlook for 2006 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied in the forward ratecurve for U.S. treasuries, the continuation of favorable U.S. and international equity markets andcontinued expansion of the global economy.The performance of the Firm's capital markets and wholesale businesses are affected by overallglobal economic growth and by financial market movements and activity levels. The Investment Bank enters 2006 with a stronginvestment banking fee pipeline and continues to focus on new product expansion initiatives, suchas commodities and securitized products, which are intended to benefit growth and reduce volatilityin trading results over time. Compared with 2005, the Investment Bank anticipates lower credit portfolio revenues dueto reduced gains from loan workouts. Asset & Wealth Management anticipates continued growth drivenby continued net inflows to Assets under supervision. Treasury & Securities Services and CommercialBanking expect growth due to increased business activity and product sales.Retail Financial Services anticipates benefiting from the expanded branch network and salesforce,and improved sales productivity and cross-selling in the branches, partially offset by pressure onloan and deposit spreads due to the higher interest rate environment. The acquisition of CollegiateFunding Services is expected to contribute modestly to earnings in 2006.Card Services anticipates that managed receivables will grow in line with the overall credit cardindustry, benefiting from marketing initiatives, new partnerships and the acquisition of the SearsCanada credit card business. Revenues and expenses also will reflect the full-year impact of thePaymentech deconsolidation and the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit card business.The Corporate segment includes Private Equity, Treasury and other corporate support units. Therevenue outlook for the Private Equity business is directly related to the strength of the equitymarkets and the performance of the underlying portfolio investments. If current market conditionspersist, the Firm anticipates continued realization of private equity gains in 2006, but resultscan be volatile from quarter to quarter. It is anticipated that Treasury net interest&nbsp; &nbsp;income will gradually improve and that the net loss in Other Corporate will be reduced asmerger savings and other expense reduction initiatives, such as less excess real estate, arerealized.The Provision for credit losses in 2006 is anticipated to be higher than in 2005, primarily drivenby a trend toward a more normal level of provisioning for credit losses in the wholesalebusinesses. The consumer Provision for credit losses in 2006 should reflect generally stableunderlying asset quality. However, it is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experiencelower credit card net charge-offs, as the record level of bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarterof 2005 are believed to have included bankruptcy filings that would otherwise have occurred in2006. The second half of 2006 is expectedto include increased credit card delinquencies and net charge-offs as a result ofimplementation of new FFIEC minimum payment rules.Firmwide expenses are anticipated to benefit as the run rate of merger savings is expected to reachapproximately $2.8&nbsp;billion by the end of 2006 driven by activities such as the tri-state retailconversion and data center upgrades. Offsetting the merger savings will be continued investment indistribution enhancements and new product offerings; extensive merger integration activities andupgrading of technology; and expenses related to recent acquisitions, such as the Sears Canadacredit card business and Collegiate Funding Services.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Consolidated results of operations&nbsp;The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated results ofoperations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&nbsp;31, 2005. Factors that arerelated primarily to a single business segment are discussed in more detail within that businesssegment than they are in this consolidated section. For a discussion of the Critical accountingestimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated results of operations, see pages 81&#150;83 ofthis Annual Report.Revenue2005 compared with 2004Total net revenue for 2005 was $54.5&nbsp;billion, up 27% from 2004, primarily due to the Merger, whichaffected every revenue category. The increase from the prior year also was affected by a $1.3billion gain on the sale of BrownCo; higher Trading revenue; and higher Asset management,administration and commissions, which benefited from several new investments and growth inAssets under management and assets under custody. These increases were offset partly byavailable-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) securities losses as a result of repositioning of the Firm's Treasuryinvestment portfolio. The discussions that follow highlight factors other than the Merger thataffected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees reflected continued strength in advisory, equity and debtunderwriting, with particular growth in Europe, which benefited from the business partnership withCazenove. Trading revenue increased from 2004, reflecting strength in fixed income, equities andcommodities. For a further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue, which areprimarily recorded in the IB, see the IB segment results on pages 36&#150;38 of this Annual Report.The higher Lending & deposit-related fees were driven by the Merger; absent the effects of theMerger, the deposit-related fees would have been lower due to rising interest rates. In a higherinterest-rate environment, the value of deposit balances to a customer is greater, resulting in areduction of deposit-related fees. For a further discussion of liability balances (includingdeposits) see the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 47&#150;48 and 49&#150;50, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions revenue was driven by incrementalfees from several new investments, including a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management,LLC, the business partnership with Cazenove and the acquisition of Vastera. Also contributing tothe higher level of revenue was an increase in Assets under management, reflecting net assetinflows, mainly in equity-related products, and global equity market appreciation. In addition,Assets under custody were up due to market value appreciation and new business. Commissions rose asa result of a higher volume of brokerage transactions. For additional information on these fees andcommissions, see the segment discussions for IB on pages 36&#150;38, AWM on pages 51&#150;52 and TSS onpages 49&#150;50 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The decline in Securities/private equity gains reflected $1.3&nbsp;billion of securities losses, ascompared with $338&nbsp;million of gains in 2004. The losses resulted primarily from repositioning theFirm's Treasury investment portfolio in response to rising interest rates. The securities losseswere offset partly by higher private equity gains due to a continuation of favorable capitalmarkets conditions. For a further discussion of Securities/private equity gains, which are recordedprimarily in the Firm's Treasury and Private Equity businesses, see the Corporate segmentdiscussion on pages 53&#150;54 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased due to improvements in risk management results relatedto MSR assets. Mortgage fees and related income exclude the impact of NII and AFS securities gainsrelated to home mortgage activities. For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income, which isrecorded primarily in RFS's Home Finance business, see the segment discussion for RFS on pages39&#150;44 of this Annual Report.Credit card income rose as a result of higher interchange income associated with the increase incharge volume. This increase was offset partially by higher volume-driven payments to partners;rewards expense; and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, which was deconsolidated uponcompletion of the integration of Chase Merchant Services and the Paymentech merchant processingbusinesses in 2005. For a further discussion of Credit card income, see CS segment results on pages45&#150;46 of this Annual Report.The increase in Other income primarily reflected a $1.3&nbsp;billion pre-tax gain on the sale of BrownCoto E*TRADE Financial; higher gains from loan workouts and loan sales; and higher revenuesas a result of a shift from financing leases to operating leases in the auto business. These gainswere offset partly by write-downs on auto loans that were transferred to held-for-sale and aone-time gain in 2004 on the sale of an investment.Net interest income rose as a result of higher average volume of, and wider spreads on, liabilitybalances. Also contributing to the increase was higher average volume of wholesale and consumerloans, in particular, home equity and credit card loans. These increases were offset partially bynarrower spreads on consumer and wholesale loans and on trading assets, as well as reduced Treasuryinvestment portfolio levels. The Firm's total average interest-earning assets in 2005 were $916billion, up 23% from the prior year. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fullytaxable-equivalent basis, was 2.19%, a decrease of six basis points from the prior year.2004 compared with 2003Total net revenues, at $43.1&nbsp;billion, rose by $9.7&nbsp;billion, or 29%, primarily due to the Merger,which affected every category of Total net revenue. The discussion that follows highlights factorsother than the Merger that affected the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by significant gains in underwriting andadvisory activities as a result of increased global market volumes and market share gains. Tradingrevenue declined by 18%, primarily due to lower portfolio management results in fixed income andequities.Lending& deposit related fees were up from 2003 due to the Merger. The rise was offset partially by lower deposit-related fees, as clients paid for services with depositsversus fees due to rising interest rates. Throughout 2004, deposit balances grew in response torising interest rates.The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions was driven also by the full-yearimpact of other acquisitions &#150; such as EFS in January&nbsp;2004, Bank One's Corporate Trust business inNovember&nbsp;2003 and JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services inJune&nbsp;2003 &#150; as well as the effect of globalequity market appreciation, net asset inflows and a better product mix. In addition, a more activemarket for trading activities in 2004 resulted in higher brokerage commissions.Securities/private equity gains for 2004 rose from the prior year, primarily fueled by theimprovement in the Firm's private equity investment results. This change was offset by lowersecurities gains on the Treasury investment portfolio as a result of lower volumes of securitiessold, and lower gains realized on sales due to higher interest rates. Additionally, RFS's HomeFinance business reported losses in 2004 on AFS securities, as compared with gains in 2003. For afurther discussion of securities gains, see the RFS and Corporate segment discussions on pages39&#150;44 and 53&#150;54, respectively, of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income rose as a result of higher servicing revenue; this improvement wasoffset partially by lower MSR risk management results and prime mortgage production revenue, and bylower gains from sales and securitizations of subprime loans as a result of management's decisionin 2004 to retain these loans. Mortgage fees and related income exclude the impact of NII andsecurities gains related to home mortgage activities.Credit card income increased from 2003 as a result of higher customer charge volume, which resultedin increased interchange income, and higher credit card servicing fees associated with an increaseof $19.4&nbsp;billion in average securitized loans. The increases were offset partially by highervolume-driven payments to partners and rewards expense.The increase in Other income from 2003 reflected gains on leveraged lease transactions, the sale ofan investment in 2004 and higher net results from corporate- and bank-owned life insurancepolicies. These positive factors in 2004 were offset partially by gains on sales of severalnonstrategic businesses and real estate properties in 2003.Net interest income rose from 2003 as growth in volumes of consumer loans and deposits, as well aswider spreads on deposits, contributed to higher net interest income. These positive factors wereoffset partially by lower wholesale loan balances in the IB and tighter spreads on loans,investment securities and trading assets stemming from the rise in interest rates. The Firm's totalaverage interest-earning assets for 2004 were $744&nbsp;billion, up $154&nbsp;billion from 2003. The netinterest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, was 2.25% in 2004, an increaseof four basis points from the prior year.&nbsp; &nbsp;Provision for credit losses2005 compared with 2004The Provision for credit losses was $3.5&nbsp;billion, an increase of $939&nbsp;million, or 37%, from 2004,reflecting the full-year impact of the Merger. The wholesale Provision for credit losses was abenefit of $811&nbsp;million for the year compared with a benefit of $716&nbsp;million in the prior year,reflecting continued strength in credit quality. The wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% in2005, an improvement from a net charge-off rate of 0.18% in the prior year. The total consumerProvision for credit losses was $4.3&nbsp;billion,$1.9&nbsp;billion higher than the prior year, primarily due to the Merger, higher bankruptcy-related netcharge-offs in Card Services and a $350&nbsp;million special provision for Hurricane Katrina. 2004included accounting policy conformity adjustments as a result of the Merger. Excluding these items,the consumer portfolio continued to show strength in credit quality.The Firm had total nonperforming assets of $2.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005, a decline of $641million, or 20%, from the 2004 level of $3.2&nbsp;billion. For further information about the Provisionfor credit losses and the Firm's management of credit risk, see the Credit risk managementdiscussion on pages 63&#150;74 of this Annual Report.2004 compared with 2003The Provision for credit losses of $2.5&nbsp;billion was up $1.0&nbsp;billion, or 65%, compared with 2003.The impact of the Merger and accounting policy conformity charges of $858&nbsp;million were offsetpartially by releases in the allowance for credit losses related to the wholesale loan portfolio,primarily due to improved credit quality in the IB, and the sale of the manufactured home loanportfolio in RFS.Noninterest expense2005 compared with 2004Noninterest expense was $38.8&nbsp;billion, up 13% from the prior year, primarily due to the full-yearimpact of the Merger. Excluding Litigation reserve charges and Merger costs, Noninterest expensewould have been $35.5&nbsp;billion, up 21%. In addition to the Merger, expenses increased as a result ofhigher performance-based incentives, continued investment spending in the Firm's businesses andincremental marketing expenses related to launching the new Chase brand, partially offset bymerger-related savings and other efficiencies throughout the Firm. Each category of Noninterestexpense was affected by the Merger. The discussions that follow highlight factors other than theMerger that affected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.Compensation expense rose as a result of higher performance-based incentives; additional headcountdue to the insourcing of the Firm's global technology infrastructure (effective December&nbsp;31, 2004,when JPMorgan Chase terminated the Firm's outsourcing agreement with IBM); the impact of severalinvestments, including Cazenove, Highbridge and Vastera; the accelerated vesting of certainemployee stock options; and business growth. The effect of the termination of the IBM outsourcingagreement was to shift expenses from Technology and communications expense to Compensation expense.The increase in Compensation expense was offset partially by merger-related savings throughout theFirm. For a detailed discussion of employee stock-based incentives,see Note 7 on pages 100&#150;102 ofthis Annual Report.The increase in Occupancy expense was primarily due to the Merger, partially offset by lowercharges for excess real estate and a net release of excess property tax accruals, compared with$103&nbsp;million of charges for excess real estate in 2004.Technology and communications expense was down only slightly. This reduction reflects the offset ofsix months of the combined Firm's results for 2004 against the full-year 2005 impact fromtermination of the JPMorgan Chase outsourcing agreement with IBM. The reduction in Technology andcommunications expense due to the outsourcing agreement termination is mostly offset by increasesin Compensation expense related to additional headcount and investments in the Firm's hardware andsoftware infrastructure.Professional and outside services were higher compared with the prior year as a result of theinsourcing of the Firm's global technology infrastructure, upgrades to the Firm's systems and technology, and business growth.These expenses were offset partially by expense-management initiatives.Marketing expense was higher compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of the Merger andthe cost of advertising campaigns to launch the new Chase brand.The increase in Other expense reflected incremental expenses related to investments made in 2005,as well as an increase in operating charges for legal matters. Also contributing to the increasewas a $93&nbsp;million charge taken by TSS to terminate a client contract and a $40&nbsp;million charge takenby RFS related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture. These items were offsetpartially by lower software impairment write-offs, merger-related savings and other efficiencies.For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 15 and Note 8 onpages 114&#150;116 and 103, respectively, of this Annual Report.The 2005 nonoperating Litigation reserve charges that were recorded by the Firm were as follows: a$1.9&nbsp;billion charge related to the settlement of the Enron class action litigation and for certainother material legal proceedings and a $900&nbsp;million charge for the settlement costs of the WorldComclass action litigation; these were partially offset by a $208&nbsp;million insurance recovery related to certainmaterial litigation. In comparison, 2004 included a $3.7&nbsp;billion nonoperating charge to increaselitigation reserves. For a further discussion of litigation, refer to Note 25 on page 123 of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.2004 compared with 2003Noninterest expense was $34.4&nbsp;billion in 2004, up $12.5&nbsp;billion, or 57%, primarily due to theMerger. Excluding $1.4&nbsp;billion of Merger costs, and Litigation reserve charges, Noninterest expensewould have been $29.3&nbsp;billion, up 35%. The discussion that follows highlights other factorsaffecting the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.Compensation expense was up from 2003, primarily due to strategic investments in the IB andcontinuing expansion in RFS. These factors were offset partially by ongoing efficiency improvementsand merger-related savings throughout the Firm, and by a reduction in pension costs. The decline inpension costs was attributable mainly to the increase in the expected return on plan assetsresulting from a discretionary $1.1&nbsp;billion contribution to the Firm's pension plan in April&nbsp;2004,partially offset by changes in actuarial assumptions for 2004 compared with 2003.The increase in Occupancy expense was offset partly by lower charges for excess real estate, whichwere $103&nbsp;million in 2004 compared with $270&nbsp;million in 2003.Technology and communications expense was higher than in the prior year as a result of higher costsassociated with greater use of outside vendors, primarily IBM, to support the global infrastructurerequirements of the Firm. For a further discussion regarding the IBM outsourcing agreement, see theCorporate segment discussion on page 53 of this Annual Report.Professional & outside services rose due to higher legal costs associated with litigation matters,as well as outside services stemming from recent acquisitions &#150; primarily Electronic FinancialServices (&#147;EFS&#148;), and growth in business at TSS and CS.Marketing expense rose as CS initiated a more robust marketing campaign during 2004.Other expense was up due to software impairment write-offs of $224&nbsp;million, primarily in TSS andCorporate, compared with $60&nbsp;million in 2003; higher operating charges for legal matters; andgrowth in business volume. These expenses were offset partly by a $57&nbsp;million settlement related tothe Enron surety bond litigation.For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 15 and Note 8 onpages 114&#150;116 and 103, respectively.In June of 2004, JPMorgan Chase recorded a $3.7&nbsp;billion addition to the Litigation reserve. Bycomparison, 2003 included a charge of $100&nbsp;million for Enron-related litigation.Income tax expenseThe Firm's Income before income tax expense, Income tax expense and effective tax rate were asfollows for each of the periods indicated:2005 compared with 2004The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily the result of higher reported pre-tax incomecombined with changes in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes. Alsocontributing to the increase were lower 2005 nonoperating charges and a gain on the sale ofBrownCo, which were taxed at marginal tax rates of 38% and 40%, respectively. These increases wereoffset partially by a tax benefit of $55&nbsp;million recorded in connection with the repatriation offoreign earnings.2004 compared with 2003The reduction in the effective tax rate for 2004, as compared with 2003, was the result of variousfactors, including lower reported pre-tax income, a higher level of business tax credits, andchanges in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes, partially offset bypurchase accounting adjustments related to leveraged lease transactions. The Merger costs andaccounting policy conformity adjustments recorded in 2004, and the Litigation reserve chargerecorded in the second quarter of 2004, reflected a tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate,contributing to the reduction in the effective tax rate compared with 2003.&nbsp; &nbsp;Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAP financial measures&nbsp;The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principles generallyaccepted in the United States of America (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appear on pages87&#150;90 of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as &#147;reported basis,&#148; providesthe reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be tracked consistently from yearto year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S. GAAPfinancial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviews the Firm's andthe lines' of business results on an operating basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. TheFirm's definition of operating basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results. Operating basisexcludes: (i)&nbsp;merger costs, (ii)&nbsp;the nonoperating litigation charges taken and insurance recoveriesreceived with respect to certain of the Firm's material litigation; and (iii)&nbsp;costs related to theconformance of certain accounting policies as a result of the Merger. Management believes theseitems are not part of the Firm's normal daily business operations and, therefore, not indicative oftrends, as they do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods. For additional detail onnonoperating litigation charges, see the Glossary of terms on page 134 of this Annual Report.In addition, the Firm manages its lines of business on an operating basis. In the case of theInvestment Bank, noninterest revenue on an operating basis includes, in trading-related revenue,net interest income related to trading activities. Trading activities generate revenues, which arerecorded for U.S. GAAP purposes in two line items on the income statement: trading revenue, whichincludes the mark-to-market gains or losses on trading positions; and net interest income, whichincludes the interest income or expense related to those positions. The impact of changes in marketinterest rates will either be recorded in Trading revenue or Net interest income depending onwhether the trading position is a cash security or a derivative. Combining both the trading revenueand related net interest income allows management to evaluate the economic results of theInvestment Bank's trading activities, which for GAAP purposes are reported in both Trading revenueand Net interest income. In management's view, this presentation also facilitates operatingcomparisons to competitors. For a discussion of trading-relatedrevenue, see the IB on pages 36&#150;38of this Annual Report.In the case of Card Services, operating basis is also referred to as &#147;managed basis,&#148; and excludesthe impact of credit card securitizations on total net revenue, the provision for credit losses,net charge-offs and loan receivables. This presentation is providedto facilitate operating comparisons to competitors. Through securitization, the Firm transforms aportion of its credit card receivables into securities, which are sold to investors. The creditcard receivables are removed from the consolidated balance sheet through the transfer of thereceivables to a trust, and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investorsto specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remainingundivided interests as seller's interests, which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balancesheets. A gain or loss on the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded inOtherincome. Securitization also affects the Firm's Consolidatedstatements of income as interest income, certain fee revenue, recoveries in excessof interest paid to the investors, gross credit losses and other trust expenses related to thesecuritized receivables are all reclassified into credit card income. For a reconciliation of reported to managed basis of Card Servicesresults, see page 46 of this Annual Report. For information regarding loans and residual interestssold and securitized, see Note 13 on pages 108&#150;111 of this Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase uses theconcept of &#147;managed receivables&#148; to evaluate the credit performance and overall financialperformance of the underlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold: as the same borrower iscontinuing to use the credit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affectboth the loan receivables sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosuresregarding managed loan receivables, JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they werestill on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-offrates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio. In addition, Card Services operations arefunded, operating results are evaluated, and decisions are made about allocating resources such asemployees and capital based upon managed financial information.Finally, commencing with the first quarter of 2005, operating revenue (noninterest revenue and netinterest income) for each of the segments and the Firm is presented on a tax-equivalent basis.Accordingly, revenue from tax exempt securities and investments that receive tax credits arepresented in the operating results on a basis comparable to taxable securities and investments.This non-GAAP financial measure allows management to assess the comparability of revenues arisingfrom both taxable and tax-exempt sources. The corresponding income tax impact related to theseitems is recorded within income tax expense. The Corporate sector's and the Firm's operatingrevenue and income tax expense for the periods prior to the first quarter of 2005 have beenrestated to be similarly presented on a tax-equivalent basis. This restatement had no impact on theCorporate sector's or the Firm's operating earnings.Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level because it believes thesenon-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlyingoperational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparisonof the business segment with the performance of competitors.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the firm's reported GAAP results to operating results:(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; &nbsp;(Table continued from previous page)Nonoperating ItemsThe reconciliation of the Firm's reported results to operating results in the accompanying tablesets forth the impact of several nonoperating items incurred by the Firm in 2005 and 2004. Thesenonoperating items are excluded from Operating earnings, as management believes these items are notpart of the Firm's normal daily business operations and, therefore, not indicative of trends asthey do not provide meaningful comparisons with other periods. These items include Merger costs,nonoperating litigation charges and insurance recoveries, and charges to conform accountingpolicies, each of which is described below:&nbsp;&nbsp;Calculation of Certain GAAP and Non-GAAP MetricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following GAAP and non-GAAPmeasures:Return on common equityReturn on equity less goodwill(a)Return on assetsOverhead ratio&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Business segment results&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major businesssegments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management, as well as a Corporate segment. Thesegments arebased upon the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, and reflect themanner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. Results of these linesof business are presented on an operating basis.In connection with the Merger, business segment reporting was realigned to reflect the newbusiness structure of the combined Firm. Treasury was transferred from the IB into Corporate. Thesegment formerly known as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance, ChaseCardmember Services, Chase Auto Finance, Chase Regional Banking and Chase Middle Market; as aresult of the Merger, this segment is now called Retail Financial Services and is comprised of HomeFinance, Auto & Education Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance. ChaseCardmember Services is now its own segment called Card Services, and Chase Middle Market moved intoCommercial Banking. Investment Management & Private Banking was renamed Asset & Wealth Management.JPMorgan Partners, which formerly was a stand-alone business segment, was moved intoCorporate. Corporate currently comprises Private Equity (JPMorgan Partners and ONE EquityPartners) and Treasury, and the corporate support areas, which include Central Technology andOperations, Audit, Executive Office, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Officeof the General Counsel, Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, and Strategyand Development. Beginning January&nbsp;1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS.WSS was formed by consolidating IS and ITS.Segment results for periods prior to July&nbsp;1, 2004, reflect heritage JPMorgan Chase-only results andhave been restated to reflect the current business segment organization and reportingclassifications.Segment results &#150; Operating basis(a)(b)(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; &nbsp;Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentially astand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocates incomeand expense using market-based methodologies. Effective with the Merger on July&nbsp;1, 2004, several ofthe allocation methodologies were revised, as noted below. As prior periods have not been revisedto reflect these new methodologies, they are not comparable to the presentation of periodsbeginning with the third quarter of 2004. Further, the Firm continues to assess the assumptions,methodologies and reporting reclassifications used for segment reporting, and further refinementsmay be implemented in future periods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to share revenues from those transactions. Theserevenue-sharing agreements were revised on the Merger date to provide consistency across the linesof business.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (&#147;FTP&#148;) is used to allocate interest income and expense to each business andtransfer the primary interest rate risk exposures to Corporate. The allocation process is unique toeach business and considers the interest rate risk, liquidity risk and regulatory requirements ofits stand-alone peers. Business segments may retain certain interest rate exposures, subject tomanagement approval, that would be expected in the normal operation of a similar peer business. Inthe third quarter of 2004, FTP was revised to conform the policies of the combined firms.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, the costs of thosesupport units are allocated to the business segments. Those expenses are allocated based upon theiractual cost, or the lower of actual cost or market cost, as well as upon usage of the servicesprovided. Effective with the third quarter of 2004, the cost allocation methodologies of theheritage firms were aligned to provide consistency across the business segments. In addition,expenses related to certain corporate functions, technology and operations ceased to be allocatedto the business segmentsand are retained in Corporate. These retained expenses include parent company costs that would notbe incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certain corporatestaff, technology and operations allocations with market prices; and other one-time items notaligned with the business segments. During 2005, the Firm refined cost allocation methodologiesrelated to certain corporate functions, technology and operations expenses in order to improvetransparency, consistency and accountability with regard to costs allocated across businesssegments. Prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new cost allocation methodologies.Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peercomparisons, economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capitalassigned to each business is referred to as equity. At the time of the Merger, goodwill, as well asthe associated capital, was allocated solely to Corporate. Effective January&nbsp;2006, the Firm expectsto refine its methodology for allocating capital to the business segments to include any goodwillassociated with line of business-directed acquisitions since the Merger. U.S. GAAP requires theallocation of goodwill to the business segments for impairment testing (see Critical accountingestimates used by the Firm and Note 15 on pages 81&#150;83 and 114&#150;116, respectively, of this AnnualReport). See the Capital management section on page 56 of this Annual Report for a discussion ofthe equity framework.Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients thesegments share. At the time of the Merger, the reimbursement methodology was revised to be basedupon pre-tax earnings, net of the cost of capital related to those exposures. Prior to the Merger,the credit reimbursement was based upon pre-tax earnings, plus the allocated capital associatedwith the shared clients.Tax-equivalent adjustmentsSegment and Firm results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for segment reporting purposes.Refer to Explanation and reconciliation of the Firm's non-GAAP financial measures on page 31 ofthis Annual Report for additional details.Segment results &#150; Operating basis(a)(b)(Table continued from previous page)&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Investment Bank&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth ofits client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank has extensive relationshipswith corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors worldwide. TheFirm provides a full range of investment banking products and services in all major capitalmarkets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debtmarkets, sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities and derivativeinstruments. The Investment Bank also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing andtrading activities.Selected income statement dataThe following table provides the IB's total net revenue by business segment:2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings of $3.7&nbsp;billion were up 24%, or $710&nbsp;million, from the prior year. The increasewas driven by the Merger, higher revenues and an increased benefit from the Provision for creditlosses. These factors were partially offset by higher compensation expense. Return on equity was18%.Net revenue of $14.6&nbsp;billion was up $2.0&nbsp;billion, or 16%, over the prior year, representing theIB's highest annual revenue since 2000, driven by strong Fixed Income and Equity Markets andInvestment banking fees. Investment banking fees of $4.1&nbsp;billion increased 15% from the prior yeardriven by strong growth in advisory fees resulting in part from the Cazenove business partnership.Advisory revenues of $1.3&nbsp;billion were up 35% from the prior year, reflecting higher marketvolumes. Debt underwriting revenues of $2.0&nbsp;billion increased by 6% driven by strong loansyndication fees. Equity underwriting fees of $864&nbsp;million were up 11% from the prior year drivenby improved market share. Fixed Income Markets revenue of $7.2&nbsp;billion increased 15%, or $928million, driven by stronger, although volatile, trading results across commodities, emergingmarkets, rate markets and currencies. Equities Markets revenues increased 21% to $1.8&nbsp;billion,primarily due to increased commissions, which were offset partially by lower trading results, whichalso experienced a high level of volatility. Credit Portfolio revenues were $1.4&nbsp;billion, up $213million from the prior year due to higher gains from loan workouts and sales as well as highertrading revenue from credit risk management activities.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $838&nbsp;million compared with a benefit of $640million in 2004. The increased benefit was due primarily to the improvement in the credit qualityof the loan portfolio and reflected net recoveries. Nonperforming assets of $645&nbsp;million decreasedby 46% since the end of 2004.Noninterest expense increased 12% to $9.7&nbsp;billion, largely reflecting higher performance-basedincentive compensation related to growth in revenue. Noncompensation expense was up 4% from theprior year primarily due to the impact of the Cazenove business partnership, while the overheadratio declined to 67% for 2005, from 69% in 2004.2004 compared with 2003In 2004, Operating earnings of $2.9&nbsp;billion were up 5% from the prior year. Increases in Investmentbanking fees, the improvement in the Provision for credit losses and the impact of the Merger werepartially offset by decreases in trading revenues and net interest income. Return on equity was 17%for 2004.Total net revenue of $12.6&nbsp;billion was relatively flat from the prior year, primarily due to lowerFixed income markets revenues and Credit portfolio revenues, offset by increases in Investmentbanking fees and the impact of the Merger. The decline in revenue from Fixed income markets wasdriven by weaker portfolio management trading results, mainly in the interest rate marketsbusiness. Credit portfolio revenues were down due to lower net interest income,&nbsp; &nbsp;primarily driven by lower loan balances; these factors were partially offset by higher tradingrevenue due to more severe credit spread tightening in 2003 relative to 2004. Investment bankingfees increased by 24% over the prior year, driven by significant gains in advisory and debtunderwriting. The advisory gains were a result of increased global market volumes and market share,while the higher underwriting fees were due to stronger client activity.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $640&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $181million in 2003. The improvement in the provision was the result of a $633&nbsp;million decline in netcharge-offs, partially offset by lower reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004relative to 2003.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, Noninterest expense was up 5% from the prior year. Theincrease from 2003 was driven by higher Compensation expense, resulting from strategic investmentsand the impact of the Merger.Selected metricsAccording to Thomson Financial, in 2005, the Firm improved its ranking in U.S. Debt, Equity andEquity-related from #5 in 2004 to #4 and in U.S. Equity and Equity-related from #6 in 2004 to #5.The Firm maintained its #3 position in Global Announced M&A with 24% market share and its #1position in Global Syndicated Loans. The Firm maintained its #2 ranking in U.S. Long-Term Debt, butdropped from #2 to #4 in Global Long-Term Debt.According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #2 in Investment Banking fees generated during 2005.Market shares and rankings(a)&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Composition of revenueIB revenues comprise the following:Investment banking fees includes advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loansyndication fees.Fixed income markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-makingand proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including government and corporatedebt, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities markets.Equities markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making andproprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivatives andconvertibles.Credit portfolio revenue includes Net interest income, fees and loan sale activity, as well asgains or losses on securities received as part of a loan restructuring, for IB's credit portfolio.Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the Firm's lendingand derivative activities, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;), which is thecomponent of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.See pages 69&#150;70 of the Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for a furtherdiscussion.&nbsp; &nbsp;Retail Financial Services&nbsp;RFS includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking, Auto & Education Finance andInsurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm provides consumers and small businesses witha broad range of financial products and services including deposits, investments, loans andinsurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is one ofthe largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Consumer & Small Business Banking offersone of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,641 branches and7,312 automated teller machines (&#147;ATMs&#148;). Auto & Education Finance is the largest noncaptiveoriginator of automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college students. Through itsInsurance operations, the Firm sells and underwrites an extensive range of financial protectionproducts and investment alternatives, including life insurance, annuities and debt protectionproducts.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings were $3.4&nbsp;billion, up $1.2&nbsp;billion from the prior year. The increase was duelargely to the Merger but also reflected increased deposit balances and wider spreads, higher homeequity and subprime mortgage balances, and expense savings in all businesses. These benefits werepartiallyoffset by narrower spreads on retained loan portfolios, the special provision for Hurricane Katrinaand net losses associated with portfolio loan sales in the Home Finance and Auto businesses.Net revenue increased to $14.8&nbsp;billion, up $4.0&nbsp;billion, or 37%, due primarily to the Merger. Netinterest income of $10.2&nbsp;billion increased by $2.5&nbsp;billion as a result of the Merger, increaseddeposit balances and wider spreads, and growth in retained consumer real estate loans. Thesebenefits were offset partially by narrower spreads on loan balances and the absence of loanportfolios sold in late 2004 and early 2005. Noninterest revenue of $4.6&nbsp;billion increased by $1.5billion due to the Merger, improved MSR risk management results, higher automobile operating leaseincome and increased banking fees. These benefits were offset in part by losses on portfolio loansales in the Home Finance and Auto businesses.The Provision for credit losses totaled $724&nbsp;million, up $275&nbsp;million, or 61%, from 2004. Resultsincluded a special provision in 2005 for Hurricane Katrina of $250&nbsp;million and a release in 2004 of$87&nbsp;million in the Allowance for loan losses related to the sale of the manufactured home loanportfolio. Excluding these items, the Provision for credit losses would have been down $62&nbsp;million,or 12%. The decline reflected reductions in the Allowance for loan losses due to improved credit trends inmost consumer lending portfolios and the benefit of certain portfolios in run-off. These reductionswere partially offset by the Merger and higher provision expense related to the decision to retainsubprime mortgage loans.Noninterest expense rose to $8.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.8&nbsp;billion from the prior year, dueprimarily to the Merger. The increase also reflected continued investment in retail bankingdistribution and sales, increased depreciation expense on owned automobiles subject to operatingleases and a $40&nbsp;million charge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture. Expensesavings across all businesses provided a favorable offset.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $2.2&nbsp;billion, up from $1.5&nbsp;billion a year ago. The increase was due largelyto the Merger. Excluding the benefit of the Merger, earnings declined as lower MSR risk managementresults and reduced prime mortgage production revenue offset the benefits of growth in loanbalances, wider spreads on deposit products and improvement in credit costs.Total net revenue increased to $10.8&nbsp;billion, up 45% from the prior year. Net interest incomeincreased by 48% to $7.7&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger, growth in retained loan balances andwider spreads on deposit products. Noninterest revenue increased to $3.1&nbsp;billion, up 39%, due tothe Merger and higher mortgage servicing income. Both components of total revenue included declinesassociated with risk managing the MSR asset and lower prime mortgage originations.The Provision for credit losses was down 14% to $449&nbsp;million despite the impact of the Merger. Theeffect of the Merger was offset by a reduction in the Allowance for loan losses resulting from thesale of the manufactured home loan portfolio, and continued positive credit quality trends in theconsumer lending businesses.Noninterest expense totaled $6.8&nbsp;billion, up 53% from the prior year, primarily due to the Mergerand continued investment to expand the branch network. Partially offsetting the increase weremerger-related expense savings in all businesses.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Selected metricsHome FinanceHome Finance is comprised of two key business segments: Prime Production & Servicing andConsumer Real Estate Lending. The Prime Production & Servicing segment includes the operatingresults associated with the origination, sale and servicing of prime mortgages. Consumer RealEstate Lending reflects the operating results of consumer loans that are secured by real estate,retained by the Firm and held in the portfolio. This portfolio includes prime and subprime firstmortgages, home equity lines and loans, and manufactured home loans. The Firm stopped originatingmanufactured home loans early in 2004 and sold substantially all of its remaining portfolio in2004.Selected income statement data by business2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings were $1.4&nbsp;billion, up $236&nbsp;million from the prior year, primarily due to theMerger, higher loan balances, reduced expenses and improved MSR risk management results.Operating earnings for the Prime Production & Servicing segment totaled $422&nbsp;million, up $182million from the prior year. Net revenue of $1.6&nbsp;billion increased by $118&nbsp;million, reflectingimproved MSR risk management results. The increase in MSR risk management results was due in partto the absence of prior-year securities losses on repositioning of the risk management asset.Decreased mortgage production revenue attributable to lower volume partially offset this benefit.Noninterest expense of $943&nbsp;million decreased by $172&nbsp;million, reflecting lower production volumeand operating efficiencies.Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment increased by $54&nbsp;million to $935million. The current year included a loss of $120&nbsp;million associated with the transfer of $3.3billion of mortgage loans to held-for-sale, and a $140&nbsp;million special provision related toHurricane Katrina. Prior-year results included a $95&nbsp;million net benefit associated with the saleof a $4.0&nbsp;billion manufactured home loan portfolio and a $52&nbsp;million charge related to a transferof adjustable rate mortgage loans to held-for-sale. Excluding the after-tax impact of these items,earnings would have been up $242&nbsp;million, reflecting the Merger, higher loan balances and lowerexpenses, partially offset by loan spread compression due to rising short-term interest rates and aflat yield curve, which contributed to accelerated home equity loan payoffs.Home Finance uses a combination of derivatives, AFS securities and trading securities to managechanges in the fair value of the MSR asset. These risk management activities are intended toprotect the economic value of the MSR asset by providing offsetting changes in the fair value ofthe related risk management instruments. The type and amount of instruments used in this riskmanagement activity change over time as market conditions and approach dictate.&nbsp; &nbsp;During 2005, positive MSR valuation adjustments of $777&nbsp;million were partially offset by lossesof $494&nbsp;million on risk management instruments, including net interest earned on AFS securities. In2004, negative MSR valuation adjustments of $248&nbsp;million were more than offset by $361&nbsp;million ofaggregate risk management gains, including net interest earned on AFS securities. Unrealized losseson AFS securities were $174&nbsp;million, $3&nbsp;million and $144&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31, 2005, 2004 and2003, respectively. For a further discussion of MSRs, see Critical accounting estimates on page 83 and Note 15 on pages 114&#150;116 of this AnnualReport.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings in the Prime Production & Servicing segment dropped to $240&nbsp;million from $918million in the prior year. Results reflected a decrease in prime mortgage production revenue, to$728&nbsp;million from $1.3&nbsp;billion, due to a decline in mortgage originations. Operating earnings werealso adversely affected by a drop in MSR risk management revenue, to $113&nbsp;million from $784&nbsp;millionin the prior year. Results in 2004 included realized losses of $89&nbsp;million on the sale of AFSsecurities associated with the risk management of the MSR asset, compared with securities gains of$359&nbsp;million in the prior year. Noninterest expense was relatively flat at $1.1&nbsp;billion.Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment more than doubled to $881&nbsp;millionfrom $414&nbsp;million in the prior year. The increase was largely due to the addition of the Bank Onehome equity lending business but also reflected growth in retained loan balances and a $95&nbsp;millionnet benefit associated with the sale of the $4&nbsp;billion manufactured home loan portfolio; partiallyoffsetting these increases were lower subprime mortgage securitization gains as a result ofmanagement's decision in 2004 to retain these loans. These factors contributed to total net revenuerising 61% to $2.4&nbsp;billion. The provision for credit losses, at $74&nbsp;million, decreased by 69% froma year ago. This improvement was the result of an $87&nbsp;million reduction in the allowance for loanlosses associated with the manufactured home loan portfolio sale, improved credit quality and lowerdelinquencies, partially offset by the Merger. Noninterest expense totaled $922&nbsp;million, up 52%from the year-ago period, largely due to the Merger.Home Finance's origination channels are comprised of the following:Retail &#150; Borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home are directly contacted by a mortgagebanker employed by the Firm using a branch office, the Internet or by phone. Borrowers arefrequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other thirdparties.Wholesale &#150; A third-party mortgage broker refers loan applications to a mortgage banker at theFirm. Brokers are independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowersbut do not provide funding for loans.Correspondent &#150; Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions sell closedloans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (&#147;CNT&#148;) &#150; Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks andbank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis. Thesetransactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportunities in theservicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.Selected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The table below reconciles management's disclosure of Home Finance's revenue into the reportedU.S. GAAP line items shown on the Consolidated statements of income and in the related Notes toConsolidated financial statements:The following table details the MSR risk management results in the Home Finance business:MSR risk management resultsConsumer & Small Business BankingConsumer & Small Business Banking offers a full array of financial services through a branchnetwork spanning 17 states as well as through the Internet. Product offerings include checking andsavings accounts, mutual funds and annuities, credit cards, mortgages andhome equity loans, and loans for small business customers (customers with annual sales generallyless than $10&nbsp;million).Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings totaled $1.7&nbsp;billion, up $924&nbsp;million from the prior year. While growth largelyreflected the Merger, results also included increased deposit balances and wider spreads, as wellas higher debit card and other banking fees. These factors contributed to net revenue increasing to$8.4&nbsp;billion from $5.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The Provision for credit losses of $214&nbsp;millionincreased by $49&nbsp;million; excluding the special provision of $90&nbsp;million related to HurricaneKatrina, the Provision would have decreased by $41&nbsp;million from the prior year, reflecting lowernet charge-offs and improved credit quality trends. Noninterest expense increased by $1.5&nbsp;billionto $5.4&nbsp;billion, as a result of the Merger and continued investment in branch distribution andsales, partially offset by merger efficiencies.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings totaled $760&nbsp;million, up from a loss of $4&nbsp;million in the prior-year period. Theincrease was largely due to the Merger but also reflected wider spreads on deposits and lowerexpenses. These benefits were partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $5.4&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year. While theincrease was primarily attributable to the Merger, total net revenue also benefited from widerspreads on deposits.The Provision for credit losses increased to $165&nbsp;million from $76&nbsp;million in the prior year. Theincrease was in part due to the Merger but also reflected an increase in the allowance for creditlosses to cover high-risk portfolio segments.The increase in Noninterest expense to $4.0&nbsp;billion was largely attributable to the Merger.Incremental expense from investment in the branch distribution network was also a contributingfactor.&nbsp; &nbsp;Selected metricsAuto & Education FinanceAuto & Education Finance provides automobile loans and leases to consumers and loans tocommercial clients, primarily through a national network of automotive dealers. The segment is alsoa top provider of loans to students at colleges and universities across the United States.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings were $307&nbsp;million, up $37&nbsp;million from the prior year. The current year includeda net loss of $83&nbsp;million associated with a $2.3&nbsp;billion auto loan securitization; a net loss of$42&nbsp;million associated with a $1.5&nbsp;billion auto loan securitization; a $40&nbsp;million charge relatedto the dissolution of a student loan joint venture; a benefit of $34&nbsp;million from the sale of a $2billion recreational vehicle loan portfolio; and the $20&nbsp;million special provision for creditlosses related to Hurricane Katrina. The prior-year results included charges of $65&nbsp;million relatedto auto lease residuals. Excluding the after-tax impact of these items, operating earnings wouldhave increased by $90&nbsp;million over the prior year, primarily due to the Merger and improved creditquality. Results continued to reflect lower production volumes and narrower spreads.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings totaled $270&nbsp;million, up 31% from the prior year. The increase was due to theMerger, offset by narrower spreads and reduced origination volumes reflecting a competitiveoperating environment.Total net revenue increased by 36% to $1.1&nbsp;billion from the prior year. This increase was due tothe Merger, which more than offset a decline in net interest income, reflecting the competitiveoperating environment in 2004, and incremental charges associated with the Firm's auto leaseresidual exposure.The following is a brief description of selected terms used by Consumer & Small Business Banking.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The Provision for credit losses totaled $210&nbsp;million, up 2% from the prior year. The increasewas due to the Merger but was largely offset by a lower Provision for credit losses, reflectingfavorable credit trends.Noninterest expense increased by 68% to $490&nbsp;million, largely due to the Merger.Selected metricsInsuranceInsurance is a provider of financial protection products and services, including lifeinsurance, annuities and debt protection. Products and services are distributed through bothinternal lines of business and external markets. On February&nbsp;7, 2006, the Firm signed a definitiveagreement to sell its life insurance and annuity underwriting business.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings totaled $79&nbsp;million, an increase of $31&nbsp;million from the prior year, on netrevenues of $644&nbsp;million. The increase was due primarily to the Merger. Results also reflected anincrease in proprietary annuity sales commissions paid and lower expenses from merger savings andother efficiencies.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings totaled $48&nbsp;million on Total net revenue of $393&nbsp;million in 2004. The increasesin Total net revenue and Noninterest expense over the prior year were due almost entirely to theMerger.Selected metricsThe following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Insurance.&nbsp; &nbsp;Card Services&nbsp;Card Services is one of the largest issuers of credit cards in the United States, with morethan 110&nbsp;million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchant acquirer. CS offers a widevariety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, including cards issued on behalf ofmany well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels, universities, retailers and otherfinancial institutions.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managed receivables&#148; to evaluate the credit performance of theunderlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold: as the same borrower is continuing to use thecredit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the receivablessold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed receivables,JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order todisclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit cardportfolio.Operating results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue, the Provision forcredit losses, net charge-offs and receivables. Securitization does not change reported Net incomeversus operating earnings; however, it does affect the classification of items on the Consolidatedstatements of income.Selected income statement data &#150; managed basis2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings of $1.9&nbsp;billion were up $633&nbsp;million, or 50%, from the prior year due to theMerger. In addition, lower expenses driven by merger savings, stronger underlying credit qualityand higher revenue from increased loan balances and charge volume were partially offset by theimpact of increased bankruptcies.Net revenue was $15.4&nbsp;billion, up $4.6&nbsp;billion, or 43%. Net interest income was $11.8&nbsp;billion, up$3.4&nbsp;billion, or 41%, primarily due to the Merger, and the acquisition of a private labelportfolio. In addition, higher loan balances were partially offset by narrower loan spreads and thereversal of revenue related to increased bankruptcies. Noninterest revenue of $3.6&nbsp;billion was up$1.2&nbsp;billion, or 50%, due to the Merger and higher interchange income from higher charge volume,partially offset by higher volume-driven payments to partners, higher expense related to rewardsprograms and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech.The Provision for credit losses was $7.3&nbsp;billion, up $2.5&nbsp;billion, or 51%, primarily due to theMerger, and included the acquisition of a private label portfolio. The provision also increased dueto record bankruptcy-related net charge-offs resulting from the new bankruptcy legislation, whichbecame effective on October&nbsp;17, 2005. Finally, the Allowance for loan losses was increased in partby the special provision for credit losses related to Hurricane Katrina. These factors werepartially offset by lower contractual net charge-offs. Despite a record level of bankruptcy losses,the net charge-off rate improved. The managed net charge-off rate was 5.21%, down from 5.27% in theprior year. The 30-day managed delinquency rate was 2.79%, down from 3.70% in the prior year,driven primarily by accelerated loss recognition of delinquent accounts as a result of thebankruptcy reform legislation and strong underlying credit quality.Noninterest expense of $5.0&nbsp;billion increased by $1.1&nbsp;billion, or 29%, primarily due to the Merger,which included the acquisition of a private label portfolio. Merger savings, including lowerprocessing and compensation costs and the impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech, werepartially offset by higher spending on marketing.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings of $1.3&nbsp;billion increased by $591&nbsp;million compared with the prior year,primarily due to the Merger. In addition, earnings benefited from higher loan balances and chargevolume, partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses and higher expenses.Total net revenue of $10.7&nbsp;billion increased by $4.6&nbsp;billion. Net interest income of $8.4&nbsp;billionincreased by $3.3&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger and higher loan balances. Noninterestrevenue of $2.4&nbsp;billion increased by $1.3&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger and increasedinterchange income resulting from higher charge-off volume. These factors were partially offset byhigher volume-driven payments to partners, reflecting the sharing of income and increased rewardsexpense.The Provision for credit losses of $4.9&nbsp;billion increased by $1.9&nbsp;billion, primarily due to theMerger and growth in credit card receivables. Credit ratios remained strong, benefiting fromreduced contractual and bankruptcy charge-offs. The net charge-off ratio was 5.27%. The 30-daydelinquency ratio was 3.70%.Noninterest expense of $3.9&nbsp;billion increased by $1.7&nbsp;billion, primarily related to the Merger. Inaddition, expenses increased due to higher marketing expenses and volume-based processing expenses,partially offset by lower compensation expenses.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Selected metricsThe financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis todisclose the effect of securitizations.The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.&nbsp; &nbsp;Commercial Banking&nbsp;Commercial Banking serves more than 25,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities with annual revenues generally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion. Whilemost Middle Market clients are within the Retail Financial Services footprint, CB also coverslarger corporations, as well as local governments and financial institutions on a national basis.CB is a market leader with superior client penetration across the businesses it serves. Localmarket presence, coupled with industry expertise and excellent client service and risk management,enable CB to offer superior financial advice. Partnership with other JPMorgan Chase businessespositions CB to deliver broad product capabilities &#150; including lending, treasury services,investment banking, and asset and wealth management &#150; and meet its clients' financial needs.Selected income statement dataCommercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major U.S. metropolitan areas and is dividedinto three customer segments: Middle Market Banking, Mid-Corporate Banking and Real Estate. Generalcoverage for corporate clients is provided by Middle Market Banking, which covers clients withannual revenues generally up to $500&nbsp;million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients with annualrevenues generally ranging between $500&nbsp;million and $2&nbsp;billion and focuses on clients that havebroader investment banking needs. The third segment, Real Estate, serves investors in, anddevelopers of, for-sale housing, multifamily rental, retail, office, and industrial properties. Inaddition to thesethree customer segments, Commercial Banking offers several products to the Firm's entire customerbase: Chase Business Credit, the #1 asset-based lender for 2005, provides asset-based financing,syndications, and collateral analysis, and Chase Equipment Leasing offers a variety of equipmentfinance and leasing products, with specialties in aircraft finance, public sector, and informationtechnology. Given this structure, Commercial Banking manages a customer base and loan portfoliothat is highly diversified across a broad range of industries and geographic locations.2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings of $1.0&nbsp;billion were up $399&nbsp;million from the prior year, primarily due to theMerger.Net revenue of $3.6&nbsp;billion increased by $1.2&nbsp;billion, or 51%, primarily as a result of the Merger.In addition to the overall increase from the Merger, Net interest income of $2.6&nbsp;billion waspositively affected by wider spreads on higher volume related to liability balances and increasedloans, partially offset by narrower loan spreads. Noninterest revenue of $986&nbsp;million was lower dueto a decline in deposit-related fees due to higher interest rates, partially offset by increasedinvestment banking revenue.Each business within Commercial Banking demonstrated revenue growth over the prior year, primarilydue to the Merger. Middle Market revenue was $2.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of $870&nbsp;million over theprior year; Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $548&nbsp;million, an increase of $181&nbsp;million; and RealEstate revenue was $534&nbsp;million, up $166&nbsp;million. In addition to the Merger, revenue was higher foreach business due to wider spreads and higher volume related to liability balances and increasedinvestment banking revenue, partially offset by narrower loan spreads.Provision for credit losses of $73&nbsp;million increased by $32&nbsp;million, primarily due to a specialprovision related to Hurricane Katrina, increased loan balances and refinements in the data used toestimate the allowance for credit losses. The credit quality of the portfolio was strong with netcharge-offs of $26&nbsp;million, down $35&nbsp;million from the prior year, and nonperforming loans of $272million, down $255&nbsp;million.Noninterest expense of $1.9&nbsp;billion increased by $529&nbsp;million, or 39%, primarily due to the Mergerand to an increase in allocated unit costs for Treasury Services products.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $608&nbsp;million, an increase of 98%, primarily due to the Merger.Total net revenue was $2.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of 76%, primarily due to the Merger. In addition tothe overall increase related to the Merger, Net interest income of $1.7&nbsp;billion was positivelyaffected by higher liability balances, partially offset by lower lending-related revenue.Noninterest revenue of $682&nbsp;million was positively affected by higher investment banking fees andhigher gains on the sale of loans and securities acquired in satisfaction of debt, partially offsetby lower deposit-related fees, which often decline as interest rates rise.The Provision for credit losses was $41&nbsp;million, an increase of $35&nbsp;million, primarily due to theMerger. Excluding the impact of the Merger, the provision was higher in 2004. Lower net charge-offsin 2004 were partially offset by smaller reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004relative to 2003.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Noninterest expense was $1.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $521&nbsp;million, or 63%, primarily related tothe Merger.Selected metricsCommercial Banking revenues are comprised of the following:Lending includes a variety of financing alternatives, which are often provided on a basis securedby receivables, inventory, equipment, real estate or other assets. Products include:Treasury services includes a broad range of products and services enabling clients to transfer,invest and manage the receipt and disbursement of funds, while providing the related informationreporting. These products and services include:Investment banking products provide clients with sophisticated capital-raising alternatives, aswell as balance sheet and risk management tools, through:&nbsp; &nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing transaction, investment andinformation services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investorsworldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in the world and a leading globalcustodian. The TS business provides a variety of cash management products, trade finance andlogistics solutions, wholesale card products, and short-term liquidity management tools. The ISbusiness provides custody, fund services, securities lending, and performance measurement andexecution products. The ITS business provides trustee, depository and administrative services fordebt and equity issuers. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, Consumer & Small Business Bankingand Asset & Wealth Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TSrevenues are included in other segments' results. TSS combined the management of the IS and ITSbusinesses under the name WSS to create an integrated franchise which provides custody and investorservices as well as securities clearance and trust services to clients globally. Beginning January1, 2006, TSS will report results for two divisions: TS and WSS.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings were $1.0&nbsp;billion, an increase of $597&nbsp;million, or 136%. Primarily driving theimprovement in revenue were the Merger, business growth, and widening spreads on and growth inaverage liability balances. Noninterest expense increased primarily due to the Merger and highercompensation expense. Results for 2005 also included charges of $58&nbsp;million (after-tax) toterminate a client contract. Results for 2004 also included software-impairment charges of $97million (after-tax) and a gain of $10&nbsp;million (after-tax) on the sale of a business.TSS net revenue of $6.2&nbsp;billion increased $1.4&nbsp;billion, or 28%. Net interest income grew to $2.1billion, up $679&nbsp;million, due to wider spreads on liability balances, a change in the corporatedeposit pricing methodology in 2004 and growth in average liability balances. Noninterest revenueof $4.2&nbsp;billion increased by $705&nbsp;million, or 20%, due to product growth across TSS, the Merger andthe acquisition of Vastera. Leading the product revenue growth was an increase in assets undercustody to $11.2 trillion, primarily driven by market value appreciation and new business, alongwith growth in wholesale card, securities lending, foreign exchange, trust product, trade, clearingand ACH revenues. Partially offsetting this growth in noninterest revenue was a decline indeposit-related fees due to higher interest rates and the absence, in the current period, of a gainon the sale of a business.TS net revenue of $2.6&nbsp;billion grew by $628&nbsp;million, Investor Services net revenue of $2.2&nbsp;billiongrew by $446&nbsp;million, and Institutional Trust Services net revenue of $1.5&nbsp;billion grew by $310million. TSS firmwide net revenue, which includes TS net revenue recorded in other lines ofbusiness, grew to $8.8&nbsp;billion, up $2.3&nbsp;billion, or 35%. Treasury Services firmwide net revenuegrew to $5.2&nbsp;billion, up $1.6&nbsp;billion, or 43%.Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $154&nbsp;million, an increase of $64&nbsp;million, primarilyas a result of the Merger. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposuresmanaged within the Investment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.Noninterest expense of $4.5&nbsp;billion was up $357&nbsp;million, or 9%, due to the Merger, increasedcompensation expense resulting from new business growth and the Vastera acquisition, and charges of$93&nbsp;million to terminate a client contract. Partially offsetting these increases were higherproduct unit costs charged to other lines of business, primarily Commercial Banking, lowerallocations of Corporate segment expenses, merger savings and business efficiencies. The prior yearincluded software-impairment charges of $155&nbsp;million.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings for the year were $440&nbsp;million, an increase of $18&nbsp;million, or 4%. Results in2004 include an after-tax gain of $10&nbsp;million on the sale of an IS business. Prior-year resultsinclude an after-tax gain of $22&nbsp;million on the sale of an ITS business. Excluding these one-timegains, operating earnings would have increased by $30&nbsp;million, or 8%. Both net revenue andNoninterest expense increased primarily as a result of the Merger, the acquisition of Bank One'sCorporate Trust business in November&nbsp;2003 and the acquisition of Electronic Financial Services(&#147;EFS&#148;) in January&nbsp;2004.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.TSS net revenue improved by 35% to $4.9&nbsp;billion. This revenue growth reflected the benefit ofthe Merger, the acquisitions noted above, and improved product revenues across TSS. Net interestincome grew to $1.4&nbsp;billion from $947&nbsp;million as a result of average liability balance growth of46%, to $126&nbsp;billion, a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and widerdeposit spreads. Growth in fees and commissions was driven by a 22% increase in assets undercustody to $9.3 trillion as well as new business growth in trade, commercial card, global equityproducts, securities lending, fund services, clearing and ACH. Partially offsetting theseimprovements were lower deposit-related fees, which often decline as interest rates rise, and asoft municipal bond market.TS net revenue grew to $2.0&nbsp;billion, IS to $1.7&nbsp;billion and ITS to $1.2&nbsp;billion. TSS firmwide netrevenue grew by 41% to $6.5&nbsp;billion. TSS firmwide net revenues include TS net revenues recorded inother lines of business.Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $90&nbsp;million, compared with a credit from theInvestment Bank of $36&nbsp;million in the prior year, principally due to the Merger and a change inmethodology. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within theInvestment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.Noninterest expense totaled $4.1&nbsp;billion, up from $3.0&nbsp;billion, reflecting the Merger, theacquisitions noted above, $155&nbsp;million of software impairment charges, upfront transition expensesrelated to on-boarding new custody and fund accounting clients, and legal and technology-relatedexpenses.&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metrics include certain TSS product revenues and liabilitybalances reported in other lines of business related to customers who are also customers of thoseother lines of business. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products andrevenues, management reviews firmwide metrics such as liability balances, revenues and overheadratios in assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary, in management'sview, in order to understand the aggregate TSS business.Selected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp;Asset & Wealth Management&nbsp;Asset & Wealth Management provides investment advice and management for institutions andindividuals. With Assets under supervision of $1.1 trillion, AWM is one of the largest asset andwealth managers in the world. AWM serves four distinct client groups through three businesses:institutions through JPMorgan Asset Management; ultra-high-net-worth clients through the PrivateBank; high-net-worth clients through Private Client Services; and retail clients through JPMorganAsset Management. The majority of AWM's client assets are in actively managed portfolios. AWM hasglobal investment expertise in equities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds, private equity andliquidity, including both money market instruments and bank deposits. AWM also provides trust andestate services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, and retirement services forcorporations and individuals.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating earnings of $1.2&nbsp;billion were up $535&nbsp;million from the prior year due to the Merger andincreased revenue, partially offset by higher compensation expense. Net revenue was $5.7&nbsp;billion, up $1.5&nbsp;billion, or 36%. Noninterest revenue, primarily fees andcommissions, of $4.6&nbsp;billion was up $1.2&nbsp;billion, principally due to the Merger, the acquisition ofa majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management in 2004, net asset inflows and global equitymarket appreciation. Net interest income of $1.1&nbsp;billion was up $285&nbsp;million, primarily due to theMerger, higher deposit and loan balances, partially offset by narrower deposit spreads. Private Bank client segment revenue of $1.7&nbsp;billion increased by $135&nbsp;million. Retail clientsegment revenue of $1.5&nbsp;billion increased by $360&nbsp;million. Institutional client segment revenue wasup $504&nbsp;million to $1.4&nbsp;billion due to the acquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge CapitalManagement. Private Client Services client segment revenue grew by $486&nbsp;million, to $1.0&nbsp;billion. Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $56&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $14&nbsp;million inthe prior year, due to lower net charge-offs and refinements in the data used to estimate theallowance for credit losses. Noninterest expense of $3.9&nbsp;billion increased by $727&nbsp;million, or 23%, reflecting the Merger, theacquisition of Highbridge and increased compensation expense related primarily to higherperformance-based incentives.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $681&nbsp;million, up 137% from the prior year, due largely to the Merger butalso driven by increased revenue and a decrease in the Provision for credit losses; these werepartially offset by higher Compensation expense. Total net revenue was $4.2&nbsp;billion, up 41%, primarily due to the Merger. Additionally, fees andcommissions increased due to global equity market appreciation, net asset inflows and theacquisition of JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services (&#147;RPS&#148;) in 2003. Fees and commissions alsoincreased due to an improved product mix, with an increased percentage of assets in higher-yieldingproducts. Net interest income increased due to deposit and loan growth. The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $14&nbsp;million, a decrease of $49&nbsp;million, due to animprovement in credit quality. Noninterest expense was $3.1&nbsp;billion, up 26%, due to the Merger, increased Compensation expense andincreased technology and marketing initiatives.Selected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.AWM's client segments are comprised of the following: Institutional serves large and mid-size corporate and public institutions, endowments andfoundations, and governments globally. AWM offers these institutions comprehensive globalinvestment services, including investment management across asset classes, pension analytics, asset-liability management, active risk budgeting and overlay strategies. The Private Bank addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individualsand families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, taxand estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services. Retail provides worldwide investment management services and retirement planning and administrationthrough third-party and direct distribution channels. Private Client Services offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business ownerscomprehensive wealth management solutions that include financial planning, personal trust,investment and banking products and services.Assets under supervision2005 compared with 2004Assets under supervision (&#147;AUS&#148;) at December&nbsp;31, 2005, were $1.1 trillion, up 4%, or $43&nbsp;billion,from the prior year despite a $33&nbsp;billion reduction due to the sale of BrownCo. Assets undermanagement (&#147;AUM&#148;) were $847&nbsp;billion, up 7%. The increase was primarily the result of net assetinflows in equity-related products and global equity market appreciation. The Firm also has a 43%interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $101&nbsp;billion and $98&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Custody, brokerage, administration, and deposits were$302&nbsp;billion, down $13&nbsp;billion due to a $33&nbsp;billion reduction from the sale of BrownCo.2004 compared with 2003Assets under supervision at December&nbsp;31, 2004, were $1.1 trillion, up 45% from 2003, and Assetsunder management were $791&nbsp;billion, up 41% from the prior year. The increases were primarily theresult of the Merger, as well as market appreciation, net asset inflows and the acquisition of amajority interest in Highbridge Capital Management. The Firm also has a 43% interest in AmericanCentury Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $98&nbsp;billion and $87&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004 and2003, respectively. Custody, brokerage, administration, and deposits were $315&nbsp;billion, up 55%, dueto market appreciation, the Merger and net inflows across all products.&nbsp; &nbsp;Corporate&nbsp; The Corporate sector is comprised of Private Equity, Treasury, corporate staff units andexpenses that are centrally managed. Private Equity includes the JPMorgan Partners and ONE EquityPartners businesses. Treasury manages the structural interest rate risk and investment portfoliofor the Firm. The corporate staff units include Central Technology and Operations, Audit, ExecutiveOffice, Finance, Human Resources, Marketing & Communications, Office of the General Counsel,Corporate Real Estate and General Services, Risk Management, and Strategy and Development. Othercentrally managed expenses include the Firm's occupancy and pension-related expenses, net ofallocations to the business.Selected income statement data2005 compared with 2004Operating loss of $1.7&nbsp;billion declined from earnings of $61&nbsp;million in the prior year. Net revenue was a loss of $1.1&nbsp;billion compared with revenue of $885&nbsp;million in the prior year.Noninterest revenue of $1.6&nbsp;billion decreased by $491&nbsp;million and included securities losses of$1.5&nbsp;billion due to the repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolio, to manage exposure tointerest rates, the gain on the sale of BrownCo of $1.3&nbsp;billion and the increase in private equitygains of $262&nbsp;million. For a further discussion on the sale of BrownCo, see Note 2 on page 93 ofthis Annual Report. Net interest income was a loss of $2.7&nbsp;billion compared with a loss of $1.2&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. Actions and policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger and the repositioning of theTreasury investment portfolio were the main drivers of the increased loss. Noninterest expense was $2.0&nbsp;billion, up $723&nbsp;million, or 56%, from the prior year, primarily dueto the Merger and the cost of the accelerated vesting of certain employee stock options. Theseincreases were offset partially by merger-related savings and other expense efficiencies. On September&nbsp;15, 2004, JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the Firm's plans to reintegrate theportions of its technology infrastructure &#150; including data centers, help desks, distributedcomputing, data networks and voice networks &#150; that were previously outsourced to IBM. In January2005, approximately 3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $61&nbsp;million, down from earnings of $668&nbsp;million in the prior year. Noninterest revenue was $2.1&nbsp;billion, up 57% from the prior year. The primary component ofnoninterest revenue is Securities/private equity gains, which totaled $1.8&nbsp;billion, up 73% from theprior year. The increase was a result of net gains in the Private Equity portfolio of $1.4&nbsp;billionin 2004 compared with $27&nbsp;million in net gains in 2003. Partially offsetting these gains were lowerinvestment securities gains in Treasury. Net interest income was a loss of $1.2&nbsp;billion compared with a loss of $133&nbsp;million in the prioryear. The increased loss was driven primarily by actions and policies adopted in conjunction withthe Merger. Noninterest expense of $1.3&nbsp;billion was up $772&nbsp;million from the prior year due to the Merger. TheMerger resulted in higher gross compensation and noncompensation expenses. Allocations ofcompensation and noncompensation expenses to the businesses were lower than the gross expenseincrease due to certain policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger, which retain in Corporateoverhead costs that would not be incurred by the lines of business if operated on a stand-alonebasis, and costs in excess of the market price for services provided by the corporate staff andtechnology and operations areas.Selected metrics&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Private equity2005 compared with 2004Private Equity's operating earnings for the year were $821&nbsp;million compared with $602&nbsp;million inthe prior year. This improvement in earnings reflected an increase of $262&nbsp;million in privateequity gains to $1.7&nbsp;billion, a 15% reduction in noninterest expenses and a $62&nbsp;million decline innet funding costs of carrying portfolio investments. Private equity gains benefited from continuedfavorable markets for investment sales and recapitalizations, resulting in nearly $2&nbsp;billion ofrealized gains. The carrying value of the private equity portfolio declined by $1.3&nbsp;billion to $6.2billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2005. This decline was primarily the result of sales andrecapitalizations of direct investments.2004 compared with 2003Private Equity's operating earnings for the year totaled $602&nbsp;million compared with a loss of $290million in 2003. This improvement reflected a $1.4&nbsp;billion increase in total private equity gains.In 2004, markets improved for investment sales, resulting in $1.4&nbsp;billion of realized gains ondirect investments, compared with realized gains of $535&nbsp;million in 2003. Net write-downs on directinvestments were $192&nbsp;million in 2004 compared with net write-downs of $404&nbsp;million in 2003, asvaluations continued to stabilize amid positive market conditions. The carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2004, was $7.5&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $247&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2003. The increase was primarily the result of theacquisition of ONE Equity Partners as a result of the Merger. Excluding ONE Equity Partners, theportfolio declined as a result of sales of investments, which was consistent with management'sintention to reduce over time the capital committed to private equity. Sales of third-party fundinvestments resulted in a decrease in carrying value of $458&nbsp;million, to $641&nbsp;million at December31, 2004, compared with $1.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003.Selected income statement andbalance sheet data &#150; Private equity&nbsp; &nbsp;Balance sheet analysis&nbsp;Selected balance sheet dataSecurities purchased under resale agreements and Securities sold under repurchase agreementsThe increase in Securities purchased under resale agreements was due primarily to growth inclient-driven financing activities in North America and Europe.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; debt and equity instrumentsThe Firm's debt and equity trading instruments consist primarily of fixed income securities(including government and corporate debt) and equity and convertible cash instruments used for bothmarket-making and proprietary risk-taking activities. The increase over December&nbsp;31, 2004, wasprimarily due to growth in client-driven market-making activities across interest rate, credit andequity markets. For additional information, refer to Note 3 on page 94 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivative receivables and payablesThe Firm uses various interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity derivatives formarket-making, proprietary risk-taking and risk management purposes. The decline from December&nbsp;31,2004, was primarily due to the appreciation of the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, higherinterest rates, partially offset by increased commodity trading activity and rising commodityprices. For additional information, refer to Credit risk managementand Note 3 on pages 63&#150;74 and94, respectively, of this Annual Report.SecuritiesThe AFS portfolio declined by $46.9&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2004, primarily due to securitiessales (as a result of management's decision to reposition the Treasury investment portfolio tomanage exposure to interest rates) and maturities, which more than offset purchases. For additionalinformation related to securities, refer to the Corporate segment discussion and to Note 9 on pages53&#150;54 and 103&#150;105, respectively, of this Annual Report.LoansThe $17&nbsp;billion increase in gross loans was due primarily to an increase of $15&nbsp;billion in thewholesale portfolio, primarily from the IB, reflecting higher balances of loans held-for-sale(&#147;HFS&#148;) related to securitization and syndication activities, and growth in the IB CreditPortfolio. Wholesale HFS loans were $18&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2005, compared with $6&nbsp;billionas of December&nbsp;31, 2004. For consumer loans, growth in consumer real estate (primarily home equityloans) and credit card loans was offset largely by a decline in the auto portfolio. The increase incredit card loans primarily reflected growth from new account originations and the acquisition of$1.5&nbsp;billion of Sears Canada loans on the balance sheet. The decline in the auto portfolioprimarily reflected a difficult auto lending market in 2005, $3.8&nbsp;billion of securitizations andwas also the result of a strategic review of the portfolio in 2004 that led to the decisions tode-emphasize vehicle leasing and sell a $2&nbsp;billion recreational vehicle portfolio. For a moredetailed discussion of the loan portfolio and the Allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit riskmanagement on pages 63&#150;74 of this Annual Report.Goodwill and Other intangible assetsThe $293&nbsp;million increase in Goodwill and Other intangible assets primarily resulted from higherMSRs due to growth in the servicing portfolio as well as an overall increase in the valuation fromimproved market conditions; the business partnership with Cazenove; the acquisition of the SearsCanada credit card business; and the Neovest and Vastera acquisitions. Partially offsetting theincrease were declines from the amortization of purchased credit card relationships and coredeposit intangibles and the deconsolidation of Paymentech. For additional information, see Note 15on pages 114&#150;116 of this Annual Report.DepositsDeposits increased by 6% from December&nbsp;31, 2004. Retail deposits increased, reflecting growth fromnew account acquisitions and the ongoing expansion of the retail branch distribution network.Wholesale deposits were higher, driven by growth in business volumes. For more information ondeposits, refer to the RFS segment discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages39&#150;44 and 61&#150;62, respectively, of this Annual Report. For more information on liability balances,refer to the CB and TSS segment discussions on pages 47&#150;48 and 49&#150;50, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Long-term debt and capital debt securitiesLong-term debt and capital debt securities increased by $14.2&nbsp;billion, or 13%, from December&nbsp;31,2004, primarily due to net new issuances of long-term debt and capital debt securities. The Firmtook advantage of narrow credit spreads globally to issue opportunistically long-term debt andcapital debt securities throughout 2005. Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firmraised funds sufficient to cover maturing obligations over the next 12&nbsp;months and to support theless liquid assets on its balance sheet. Large investor cash positions and increased foreigninvestor participation in the corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify further itsfunding across the global markets while lengthening maturities. For additional information on theFirm's long-term debt activity, see the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 61&#150;62 ofthis Annual Report.Stockholders' equityTotal stockholders' equity increased by $1.6&nbsp;billion from year-end 2004 to $107.2&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2005. The increase was the result of net income for 2005 and common stock issued underemployee plans, partially offset by cash dividends, stock repurchases, the redemption of $200million of preferred stock and net unrealized losses in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Fora further discussion of capital, see the Capital management section that follows.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Capital management&nbsp; The Firm's capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is capital sufficientto support the underlying risks of the Firm's business activities, as measured by economic riskcapital, and to maintain &#147;well-capitalized&#148; status under regulatory requirements. In addition, the Firm holds capital above these requirements in amounts deemedappropriate to achieve management's regulatory and debt rating objectives. The Firm's capitalframework is integrated into the process of assigning equity to the lines of business.Line of business equity The Firm's framework for allocating capital is based upon the following objectives: Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require ifit were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements, and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Return onequity is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a key measure of abusiness segment's performance. For performance management purposes, the Firm initiated a methodology at the time of the Merger forallocating goodwill. Under this methodology, in the last half of 2004 and all of 2005, goodwillfrom the Merger and from any business acquisition by either heritage firm prior to the Merger wasallocated to Corporate, as was any associated equity. Therefore, 2005 line of business equity isnot comparable to equity assigned to the lines of business in prior years. The increase in averagecommon equity in the following table for 2005 was attributable primarily to the Merger.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm expects to refine its methodology for allocating capital tothe lines of business, and may continue to refine this methodology. The revised methodology, amongother things, considers for each line of business goodwill associatedwith such line of business'acquisitions since the Merger. As a result of this refinement, Retail Financial Services, CardServices, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management willhave higher amounts of capital allocated in 2006, while the amount of capital allocated to theInvestment Bank will remain unchanged. In management's view, the revised methodology assignsresponsibility to the lines of business to generate returns on the amount of capital supportingacquisition-related goodwill. As part of this refinement in the capital allocation methodology, theFirm will assign to the Corporate segment an amount of equity capital equal to the then-current book value of goodwill from and prior to theMerger. In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines of business will continue to perform the requiredgoodwill impairment testing. For a further discussion of goodwill and impairment testing, seeCritical accounting estimates and Note 15 on pages 81&#150;83 and 114&#150;116, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Economic risk capital JPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the underlying risks of the Firm'sbusiness activities, utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns economiccapital based primarily upon five risk factors: credit risk, market risk, operational risk andbusiness risk for each business; and private equity risk, principally for the Firm's private equitybusiness.Credit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (Investment Bank,Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management) and consumerbusinesses (Retail Financial Services and Card Services). Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, both from defaults and declines in market value due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent with the level of capitalizationnecessary to achieve a targeted &#145;AA' solvency standard. Unexpected losses are in excess of thosefor which provisions for credit losses are maintained. In addition to maturity and correlations,capital allocation is differentiated by several principal drivers of credit risk: exposure atdefault (or loan equivalent amount), likelihood of default, loss severity, and market creditspread.&nbsp; &nbsp; Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is intended to represent a capital level sufficientto support an &#145;AA' rating, and its allocation is based upon product and other relevant risksegmentation. Actual segment level default and severity experience are used to estimate unexpectedlosses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level equivalent to the &#145;AA' solvency standard.Statistical results for certain segments or portfolios are adjusted upward to ensure that capitalis consistent with external benchmarks, including subordination levels on market transactions andcapital held at representative monoline competitors, where appropriate.Market risk capitalThe Firm calculates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect therisk of loss in the value of portfolios and financial instruments caused by adverse movements inmarket variables, such as interest and foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, securities pricesand commodities prices. Daily VAR, monthly stress-test results and other factors are used todetermine appropriate capital levels. The Firm allocates market risk capital to each businesssegment according to a formula that weights that segment's VAR and stress test exposures. SeeMarket risk management on pages 75&#150;78 of this Annual Report for more information about thesemarket risk measures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottom-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based upon actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environmentor the potential offset as a result of the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm believes themodel is consistent with the new Basel II Framework and expects to propose it eventually forqualification under the advanced measurement approach for operational risk.Business risk capitalBusiness risk is defined as the risk associated with volatility in the Firm's earnings due tofactors not captured by other parts of its economic-capital framework. Such volatility can arisefrom ineffective design or execution of business strategies, volatile economic or financial marketactivity, changing client expectations and demands, and restructuring to adjust for changes in thecompetitive environment. For business risk, capital is allocated to each business based uponhistorical revenue volatility and measures of fixed and variable expenses. Earnings volatilityarising from other risk factors, such as credit, market, or operational risk, is excluded from themeasurement of business risk capital, as those factors are captured under their respective riskcapital models.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to privately- and publicly-held securities, third-party fund investments andcommitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with a declinein equity markets and related asset devaluations.Regulatory capitalThe Firm's federal banking regulator, the Federal Reserve Board (&#147;FRB&#148;), establishes capitalrequirements, including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding company.The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;) establishes similar capital requirements andstandards for the Firm's national banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank and Chase Bank USA, NationalAssociation. The federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that makes permanent an interim ruleissued in 2000 that provides regulatory capital relief for certain cash-collateralized securitiesborrowed transactions, effective February&nbsp;22, 2006. The final rule also broadens the types oftransactions qualifying for regulatory capital relief under the interim rule. Adoption of the ruleis not expected to have a material effect on the Firm's capital ratios. On March&nbsp;1, 2005, the FRB issued a final rule, which became effective April&nbsp;11, 2005, thatcontinues the inclusion of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital, subject to stricterquantitative limits and revised qualitative standards, and broadens the definition of restrictedcore capital elements. The rule provides for a five-year transition period. As an internationallyactive bank holding company, JPMorgan Chase is subject to the rule's limitation on restricted corecapital elements, including trust preferred securities, to 15% of total core capital elements, netof goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. At December&nbsp;31, 2005, JPMorgan Chase'srestricted core capital elements were 16.5% of total core capital elements. JPMorgan Chase expectsto be in compliance with the 15% limit by the March&nbsp;31, 2009, implementation date. On July&nbsp;20, 2004, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that excludes assetsof asset-backed commercial paper programs that are consolidated as a result of FIN 46R fromrisk-weighted assets for purposes of computing Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. Thefinal rule also requires that capital be held against short-term liquidity facilities supportingasset-backed commercial paper programs. The final rule became effective September&nbsp;30, 2004. Inaddition, both short- and long-term liquidity facilities are subject to certain asset quality testseffective September&nbsp;30, 2005. Adoption of the rule did not have a material effect on the capitalratios of the Firm. The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized position based uponTier&nbsp;1 and Total capital ratios at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004.Risk-based capital components and assets Tier 1 capital was $72.5&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005, compared with $68.6&nbsp;billion at December31, 2004, an increase of $3.9&nbsp;billion. The increase was due primarily to net income of $8.5billion, net common stock issued under employee plans of $1.9&nbsp;billion, $1.3&nbsp;billion of additionalqualifying trust preferred securities and a decline of $716&nbsp;million in the deduction fornonqualifying intangible assets as a result of amortization. Offsetting these increases weredividends declared of $4.8&nbsp;billion, common share repurchases of $3.4&nbsp;billion, an increase in thededuction for goodwill of $418&nbsp;million and the redemption of $200&nbsp;million of preferred stock.Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios and the federal regulatory capitalstandards to which it is subject is presented in Note 24 on pages 121&#150;122 of this Annual Report.Basel IIThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II Framework in 2004 in aneffort to update the original international bank capital&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co. accord (&#147;Basel I&#148;), in effect since 1988. The goal of the Basel II Framework is to improve theconsistency of capital requirements internationally, make regulatory capital more risk-sensitive,and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active bankingorganizations. JPMorgan Chase supports the overall objectives of the Basel II Framework. U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Framework into theexisting risk-based capital requirements. JPMorgan Chase will be required to implement advancedmeasurement techniques in the U.S. by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers toderive capital requirements. Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chasewill be required to demonstrate to its U.S. bank supervisors that its internal criteria meet therelevant supervisory standards. JPMorgan Chase expects to be in compliance within the establishedtimelines with all relevant Basel II rules.DividendsThe Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desiredpayout ratios, need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities.In 2005, JPMorgan Chase declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share.The Firm continues to target a dividend payout ratio of 30-40% of operating earnings over time.Stock repurchasesOn July&nbsp;20, 2004, the Board of Directors approved an initial stock repurchase program in theaggregate amount of $6.0&nbsp;billion. This amount includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuances under the Firm's employee stock-based plans. The actualamount of shares repurchased is subject to various factors, including market conditions; legalconsiderations affecting the amount and timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position(taking into account goodwill and intangibles); internal capital generation; and alternativepotential investment opportunities. Under the stock repurchase program, during 2005, the Firmrepurchased 93.5&nbsp;million shares for $3.4&nbsp;billion at an average price per share of $36.46. During2004, the Firm repurchased 19.3&nbsp;million shares for $738&nbsp;million at an average price per share of$38.27. As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, $1.9&nbsp;billion of authorized repurchase capacity remained. The Firm has determined that it may, from time to time, enter into written trading plans under Rule10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to facilitate the repurchase of common stock inaccordance with the repurchase program. A Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 repurchase planwould allow the Firm to repurchase shares during periods when it would not otherwise berepurchasing common stock &#150; for example, during internal trading &#147;black-out periods.&#148; All purchasesunder a Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 plan must be made according to a predefined plan that is established when theFirm is not aware of material nonpublic information. For additional information regarding repurchases of the Firm's equity securities, see Part&nbsp;II, Item5, Market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases ofequity securities, on page 11 of JPMorgan Chase's 2005 Form&nbsp;10-K.Off&#150;balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations&nbsp;Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet arrangements, includingspecial purpose entities (&#147;SPEs&#148;), lines of credit and loan commitments. The principal uses of SPEsare to obtain sources of liquidity for JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing financialassets, and to create other investment products for clients. These arrangements are an importantpart of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investors' access tospecific portfolios of assets and risks. For example, SPEs are integral to the markets formortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, and other asset-backed securities. The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase ofthose assets by issuing securities to investors. To insulate investors from creditors of otherentities, including the seller of assets, SPEs can be structured to be bankruptcy-remote. JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories: loan securitizations, multi-sellerconduits and client intermediation. Capital is held, as deemed appropriate, against all SPE-relatedtransactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions and lending-relatedcommitments. For a further discussion of SPEs and the Firm's accounting for them, see Note 1 onpage 91, Note 13 on pages 108&#150;111 and Note 14 on pages 111&#150;113 of this Annual Report. The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with whichthe Firm is involved where such investment would violate theFirm's Code of Conduct.These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit employees from acting on behalf ofthe Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest. For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if thecredit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded below specific levels, primarily P-1, A-1 andF1 for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amount of these liquiditycommitments was $71.3&nbsp;billion and $79.4&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by anotherliquidity provider in lieu of providing funding under the liquidity commitment, or, in certaincircumstances, could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order toprovide liquidity. Of its $71.3&nbsp;billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December&nbsp;31, 2005, $38.9&nbsp;billion wasincluded in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit and asset purchase agreements,included in the following table. Of the $79.4&nbsp;billion of liquidity commitments to SPEs at December31, 2004, $47.7&nbsp;billion was included in the Firm's other unfunded commitments to extend credit andasset purchase agreements. As a result of the Firm's consolidation of multi-seller conduits inaccordance with FIN 46R, $32.4&nbsp;billion of these commitments, compared with $31.7&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2004, are excluded from the following table, as the underlying assets of the SPEs havebeen included on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets. The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions; these transactionsare recorded at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value(i.e., MTM gains and losses) recorded in Trading revenue. Such MTM gains and losses are notincluded in the revenue amounts reported in the table below. The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to variable interest entities(&#147;VIEs&#148;) with which the Firm has significant involvement, and qualifying SPEs (&#147;QSPEs&#148;). Therevenue reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and custodial fee income. For afurther discussion of VIEs and QSPEs, see Note 1, Note 13 and Note 14, on pages 91, 108&#150;111 and111&#150;113, respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Revenue from VIEs and QSPEsOff-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g., commitments andguarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers. The contractual amount of these financialinstruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should the counterparty draw down thecommitment or the Firm fulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterpartysubsequently fails to perform according to the terms of the contract. Most of these commitments andguarantees expire without a default occurring or without being drawn. As a result, the totalcontractual amount of these instruments is not, in the Firm's view, representative of its actualfuture credit exposure or funding requirements. Further, certain commitments, primarily related toconsumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice, at the option of the Firm. For a further discussion of lending-related commitments and guarantees and the Firm's accounting for them, seeCredit risk management on pages 63&#150;72 and Note 27 on pages 124&#150;125 of this Annual Report.Contractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that mayrequire future cash payments. Commitments for future cash expenditures primarily include contractsto purchase future services and capital expenditures related to real estate-related obligationsand equipment. The accompanying table summarizes, by remaining maturity, JPMorgan Chase's off-balance sheetlending-related financial instruments and significant contractual cash obligations at December&nbsp;31,2005. Contractual purchases and capital expenditures in the table below reflect the minimumcontractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixedand determinable. Excluded from the following table are a number of obligations to be settled incash, primarily in under one year. These obligations are reflected on the Firm's Consolidatedbalance sheets and include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements;Other borrowed funds; purchases of Debt and equity instruments; Derivative payables; and certainpurchases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures. For a discussion regarding Long-termdebt and trust preferred capital securities, see Note 17 on pages 117&#150;118 of this Annual Report.For a discussion regarding operating leases, see Note 25 on page 122 of this Annual Report.Off&#150;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Risk management&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. The Firm's risk managementframework and governance structure is intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoingmanagement of the major risks inherent in its business activities. The Firm's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk is critical to bothsoundness and profitability.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure is built upon the premise that each line of business isresponsible for managing the risks inherent in its business activity. There are eight major risktypes identified in the business activities of the Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legaland reputation risk, fiduciary risk and private equity risk. As part of the risk managementstructure, each line of business has a Risk Committee responsible for decisions relating to riskstrategy, policies and control. Where appropriate, the Risk Committees escalate risk issues to theFirm's Operating Committee, comprised of senior officers of the Firm, or to the Risk Working Group,a subgroup of the Operating Committee. Overlaying risk management within the lines of business are three corporate functions: Treasury,Risk Management and Office of the General Counsel. Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitoring, reporting and managing the interest rate and liquidity risk profile of the Firm. RiskManagement, under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer reporting to the Chief Executive Officer,provides an independent firmwide function of control and management of risk. Within Risk Managementare those units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operational risk, private equity risk andrisk technology and operations, as well as Risk Management Services, which is responsible for riskpolicy and methodology, risk reporting and risk education. The Office of the General Counsel hasoversight function for legal, reputation and fiduciary risk. In addition to the six lines of business risk committees and these corporate functions, the Firmmaintains an Asset & Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;), which oversees interest rate and liquidity risk,and capital management, as well as the Firm's funds transfer pricing policy, through which lines ofbusiness transfer interest rate risk to Treasury. Treasury has responsibility forALCO policies and control and transfers aggregate risk positions to the Chief Investment Office, which has responsibility for managing the risk. There is also an Investment Committee, which reviews key aspects of the Firm's global M&Aactivities that are undertaken for its own investment account and that fall outside the scope ofthe Firm's private equity and other principal finance activities. The Board of Directors exercises its oversight of risk management as a whole andthrough the Board's Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The Risk Policy Committee is responsible for oversight of management'sresponsibilities to assess and manage the Firm's risks as described above.&nbsp; &nbsp; The AuditCommittee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and policies that govern theprocess by which risk assessment and management is undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committeereviews with management the system of internal controls and financial reporting that is relied uponto provide reasonable assurance of compliance with the Firm's operational risk management processes. Both committees are responsible for oversight of reputation risk. The Chief RiskOfficer and other management report on the risks of the Firm to the Board of Directors,particularly through the Board's Risk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The major risk typesidentified by the Firm are discussed in the following sections.Liquidity risk management&nbsp; Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Firm's activities and in the managementof its assets and liabilities. JPMorgan Chase's liquidity management framework is intended tomaximize liquidity access and minimize funding costs. Through active liquidity management, the Firmseeks to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding. This enables the Firm toreplace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropriate maturities and rates. Toaccomplish this task, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that take intoconsideration market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidity needs and the desiredmaturity profile of liabilities.GovernanceThe Asset & Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;) reviews the Firm's overall liquidity policy and overseesthe contingency funding plan. The ALCO also provides oversight of the Firm's exposure to SPEs, withparticular focus on the potential liquidity support requirements that the Firm may have to thoseSPEs. Treasury is responsible for formulating the Firm's liquidity strategy and targets, understandingthe Firm's on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, providing policy guidance, overseeingpolicy adherence, and maintaining contingency planning and stress testing. In addition, itidentifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals to permit early detectionof liquidity issues. An extension of the Firm's ongoing liquidity management is its contingency funding plan. The goalsof the plan are to ensure maintenance of appropriate liquidity during normal and stress periods,measure and project funding requirements during periods of stress, and manage access to fundingsources. The plan considers temporary and long-term stress scenarios where access to unsecuredfunding is severely limited or nonexistent. The plan forecasts potential funding needs, taking intoaccount both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, separately evaluating access to funds by theparent holding company and JPMorgan Chase Bank. The Firm's liquidity risk framework also incorporates tools to monitor three primary measures ofliquidity: Each liquidity position is managed to provide sufficient surplus.Risk monitoring and reportingTreasury is responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the liquidity profile ofthe Firm through both normal and stress periods. Treasury analyzes the diversity and maturitystructure of the Firm's sources of funding; and assesses downgrade impact scenarios, contingentfunding needs, and overall collateral availability and pledging status. A downgrade analysisconsiders the impact of both parent and bank level downgrades (one- and two-notch) and calculatesthe loss of funding and increase in annual funding costs for both scenarios. A trigger-risk fundinganalysis considers the impact of a bank level downgrade through A-1/P-1 as well as the increasedcontingent funding requirements that would be triggered. These liquidity analytics rely onmanagement's judgment about JPMorgan Chase's ability to liquidate assets or use them as collateralfor borrowings and take into account credit risk management's historical data on the funding ofloan commitments (e.g., commercial paper back-up facilities), liquidity commitments to SPEs,commitments with rating triggers and collateral posting requirements. For a further discussion ofSPEs and other off-balance sheet arrangements, see Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractualcash obligations on pages 58&#150;59, as well as Note 1, Note 13, Note 14 and Note 27 on pages 91,108&#150;111, 111&#150;113, and 124&#150;125, respectively, of this Annual Report.FundingSources of fundsConsistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm has raised funds at the parent holdingcompany sufficient to cover its obligations and those of its nonbank subsidiaries that mature overthe next 12&nbsp;months. Long-term funding needs for the parent holding company over the next severalquarters are expected to be consistent with prior periods. As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, the Firm's liquidity position remained strong based upon its liquiditymetrics. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding, including core deposits, exceeds illiquid assets, and the Firm believes itsobligations can be met even if access to funding is impaired. The diversity of the Firm's funding sources enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence onany one source, thereby minimizing the cost of funds. The deposits held by the RFS, CB and TSSlines of business are a stable and consistent source of funding for JPMorgan Chase Bank. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, total deposits for the Firm were $555&nbsp;billion, which represented 67% of theFirm's funding liabilities. A significant portion of the Firm's retail deposits are &#147;core&#148;deposits, which are less sensitive to interest rate changes and therefore are considered morestable than market-based deposits. Core&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.deposits include all U.S. deposits insured by the FDIC, up to the legal limit of $100,000 perdepositor. In 2005, core bank deposits increased approximately 8% from 2004&nbsp;year-end. In additionto core retail deposits, the Firm benefits from substantial, geographically diverse corporateliability balances originated by TSS and CB through the normal course of business. Thesefranchise-generated core liability balances are also a stable and consistent source of funding dueto the nature of the businesses from which they are generated. For a further discussion of depositand liability balance trends, see Business Segment Results and Balance Sheet Analysis on pages34&#150;35 and 55, respectively, of this Annual Report.Additional sources of funds include a variety of both short- and long-term instruments, includingfederal funds purchased, commercial paper, bank notes, medium- and long-term debt, and capital debtsecurities. This funding is managed centrally, using regional expertise and local market access, toensure active participation in the global financial markets while maintaining consistent globalpricing. These markets serve as a cost-effective and diversified source of funds and are a criticalcomponent of the Firm's liquidity management. Decisions concerning the timing and tenor ofaccessing these markets are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective viewsof balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.Finally, funding flexibility is provided by the Firm's ability to access the repo and assetsecuritization markets. These markets are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriatebalance of secured and unsecured funding. The ability to securitize loans, and the associated gainson those securitizations, are principally dependent upon the credit quality and yields of theassets securitized and are generally not dependent upon the credit ratings of theissuing entity. Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures are reflected inJPMorgan Chase's consolidated financial statements; these relationships include retained interestsin securitization trusts, liquidity facilities and derivative transactions. For further details,see Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations and Notes 13 and 27 on pages58&#150;59, 108&#150;111 and 124&#150;125, respectively, of this Annual Report.IssuanceCorporate credit spreads widened modestly in 2005 across most industries and sectors. On anhistorical basis, credit spreads remain near historic tight levels as corporate balance sheet cashpositions are strong and corporate profits generally healthy. JPMorgan Chase's credit spreadsperformed in line with peer spreads in 2005.Continued strong foreign investor participation in the global corporate markets allowed JPMorganChase to identify attractive opportunities globally to furtherdiversify its funding and capital sourceswhile lengthening maturities. During 2005, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $43.7&nbsp;billion oflong-term debt and capital debt securities. These issuances were offset partially by $26.9&nbsp;billionof long-term debt and capital debt securities that matured or were redeemed and the Firm'sredemption of $200&nbsp;million of preferred stock. In addition, in 2005 the Firm securitizedapproximately $18.1&nbsp;billion of residential mortgage loans, $15.1&nbsp;billion of credit card loans and$3.8&nbsp;billion of automobile loans, resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of $21&nbsp;million,$101&nbsp;million and $9&nbsp;million, respectively. For a further discussion of loan securitizations, seeNote 13 on pages 108&#150;111 of this Annual Report.Credit ratingsThe credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and each of its significantbanking subsidiaries, as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, were as follows:The Firm's principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength ratings as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005:The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings. A reductionin these ratings could adversely affect the Firm's access to liquidity sources, increase the costof funds, trigger additional collateral requirements and decrease the number of investors andcounterparties willing to lend. Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include astable and diverseearnings stream, strong capital ratios, strong credit quality and risk management controls, diversefunding sources and strong liquidity monitoring procedures.If the Firm's ratings were downgraded by one notch, the Firm estimates the incremental cost offunds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible. Additionally, the Firm estimates theadditional funding requirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments would not be material.In the current environment, the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely. For additional informationon the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on the funding requirements for VIEs, and onderivatives and collateral agreements, see Special-purpose entities on pages&nbsp;58&#150;59 and Ratingsprofile of derivative receivables mark-to-market (&#147;MTM&#148;) on page 69, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Credit risk management&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. The Firm provides creditto customers of all sizes, from large corporate clients to loans for the individual consumer. TheFirm manages the risk/reward relationship of each portfolio and discourages the retention of loanassets that do not generate a positive return above the cost of risk-adjusted capital. The majorityof the Firm's wholesale loan originations (primarily to IB clients) continues to be distributedinto the marketplace, with residual holds by the Firm averaging less than 10%. Wholesale loansgenerated by CB and AWM are generally retained on the balance sheet. With regard to the primeconsumer credit market, the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from both aproduct and a geographical perspective. Within the prime mortgage business, originated loans areretained on the balance sheet as well as selectively sold to government agencies; the lattercategory is routinely classified as held-for-sale.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm's OperatingCommittee. The Firm's credit risk management governance structure consists of the following primaryfunctions:Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lending (e.g., loans and lending-related commitments),derivatives trading and capital markets activities. The credit risk function works in partnershipwith the business segments in identifying and aggregating exposure across all lines of business.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Losses generated by consumer loans are more predictable thanwholesale losses, but are subject to cyclical and seasonal factors. Although the frequency of lossis higher on consumer loans than on wholesale loans, the severity of loss is typically lower andmore manageable. As a result of these differences, methodologies vary depending on certain factors,including type of asset (e.g., consumer installment versus wholesale loan), risk measurementparameters (e.g., delinquency status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and riskmanagement and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managedworkout groups). Credit risk measurement is based upon the amount of exposure should the obligor orthe counterparty default, the probability ofdefault and the loss severity given a default event. Based upon these factors and relatedmarket-based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale andconsumer portfolios. Probable losses, reflected in the Provision for credit losses, are generallystatistically-based estimates of credit losses over time, anticipated as a result of obligor orcounterparty default. However, probable losses are not the sole indicators of risk. If losses wereentirely predictable, the probable loss rate could be factored into pricing and covered as a normaland recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected losses, reflected in the allocation of credit riskcapital, represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level oflosses. (Refer to Capital management on pages 56&#150;58 of this Annual Report for a further discussionof the credit risk capital methodology.) Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is assessedprimarily on a risk-rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it is assessed primarily on acredit-scored basis.Risk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated, probable and unexpected loss calculations are based uponestimates of probability of default and loss given default. Probability of default is expecteddefault calculated on an obligor basis. Loss given default is an estimate of losses that are basedupon collateral and structural support for each credit facility. Calculations and assumptions arebased upon management information systems and methodologies which are under continual review. Riskratings are assigned and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and revised, ifneeded, to reflect the borrowers' current risk profiles and the related collateral and structuralpositions.Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFS and CS), probable loss is based upon astatistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of time. Probable losses areestimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools toproject credit risks and establish underwriting standards. In addition, common measures of creditquality derived from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses. Other riskcharacteristics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes in originationsources, portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlying credit practices, including charge-offpolicies. These analyses are applied to the Firm's current portfolios in order to forecastdelinquencies and severity of losses, which determine the amount of probable losses. These factorsand analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks are accurately assessed, properly approved,continually monitored and actively managed at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policyframework establishes credit approval authorities, concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies,portfolio-review parameters and problem-loan management. Wholesale credit risk is continuallymonitored on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. For consumercredit risk, the key focus items are trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, wherepotential problems can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolioguidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business expectations andindustry benchmarks. In order to meet credit risk management objectives, the Firm seeks to maintaina risk profile that is diverse in terms of borrower, product type, industry and geographicconcentration. Additional diversification of the Firm's exposure is accomplished through loansyndication and participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives and otherrisk-reduction techniques.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit metricforecasts, hold-limit exceptions and risk profile changes are reported regularly to senior creditrisk management. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer and geographic concentrationsoccurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by seniormanagement at least on a quarterly basis. Through the risk reporting and governance structure,credit risk trends and limit exceptions are provided regularly to, and discussed with, theOperating Committee.2005 Credit risk overviewThe wholesale portfolio experienced continued credit strength during 2005. Wholesalenonperforming loans were down by $582&nbsp;million, or 37%, from 2004; net recoveries were $77&nbsp;millioncompared with net charge-offs of&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.$186&nbsp;million in 2004; and the allowance for credit losses decreased by $740&nbsp;million, or 21%,reflecting the quality of the portfolio atthis time. The Firm anticipates a return to more normal provisioningfor credit losses for the wholesale portfolio in 2006.In 2005, the Firm also made significant strides in the multi-year initiative to reengineer specificcomponents of the wholesale credit risk infrastructure. The Firm is on target to meet the goals ofenhancing the timeliness and accuracy of risk and exposure information and reporting; management ofcredit risk in the retained portfolio; support of client relationships; allocation of economiccapital and compliance with Basel II initiatives.Consumer credit was impacted in 2005 by two significant events, Hurricane Katrina and federalbankruptcy reform legislation. Hurricane Katrina impacted customers across all consumer businesses(and to a lesser extent CB and AWM). As a result, the consumer Allowance for loan losses wasincreased by $350&nbsp;million ($250&nbsp;million in RFS, and $100&nbsp;million in CS). It is anticipated that themajority of charge-offs associated with the hurricane will be taken against the allowance in 2006.Bankruptcy reform legislation became effective on October&nbsp;17, 2005. This legislation prompted a&#147;rush to file&#148; effect that resulted in a spike in bankruptcy filings and increased credit losses,predominantly in CS, where it is believed that $575&nbsp;millionin estimated bankruptcy legislation-related credit losses occurred in the fourth quarter of2005. It is anticipated that the first half of 2006 will experience lower credit card netcharge-offs, as the record levels of bankruptcy filings in the 2005 fourth quarter are believed tohave included bankruptcy filings that would have occurred in 2006. With the exception of the eventsnoted above, the 2005 underlying credit performance, which was driven by favorable loss severityperformance in residential real estate, continued to be strong. CS continues to quantify and refinethe impact associated with changes in the FFIEC minimum-payment requirements. Actual implementationof the new payment requirements began in late 2005 and will run through early 2006; CS anticipateshigher net charge-offs during the second half of 2006 as a result.In 2005, the Firm continued to grow the consumer loan portfolio, focusing on businesses providingthe most appropriate risk/reward relationship while keeping within the Firm's desired risktolerance. During the past year, the Firm continued a de-emphasis of vehicle leasing and sold its$2&nbsp;billion recreational vehicle portfolio. Continued growth in most core consumer lending products(residential real estate, credit cards and small business) reflected a focus on the prime creditquality segment of the market.Credit portfolio&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004.Total credit exposure at December&nbsp;31, 2005, increased by $67&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31, 2004,reflecting an increase of $11&nbsp;billion in the wholesale credit portfolio and $56&nbsp;billion in theconsumer credit portfolio. The significant majority of the consumer portfolio increase,or $54&nbsp;billion, was primarily from growth in lending-related commitments. In the table below,reported loans include all HFS loans, which are carried at the lower of cost or fair value withchanges in value recorded in Other income. However, these HFS loans are excluded from the averageloan balances used for the net charge-off rate calculations.Total credit portfolio&nbsp; &nbsp;Wholesale credit portfolio&nbsp;As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, wholesale exposure (IB, CB, TSS and AWM) increased by $11&nbsp;billion fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2004. Increases in Loans and lending-related commitments were offset partially byreductions in Derivative receivables and Interests in purchased receivables. As described on pages36&#150;37 of this Annual Report, the increase in Loans was primarily in the IB,reflecting an increase in loans held-for-sale related to securitization and syndication activitiesand growth in the IB credit portfolio. The increase in lending-related commitments was mostly dueto CB activity. The decrease in Derivative receivables was due primarily to the appreciation of theU.S. dollar and higher interest rates, partially offset by rising commodity prices.Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004. The ratings scale is based upon the Firm's internal risk ratings and ispresented on an S&P-equivalent basis.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.At December&nbsp;31, 2005, the percentage of the investment-grade wholesale exposure, excluding HFS,remained relatively unchanged from December&nbsp;31, 2004. Derivative receivables of less than one yeardecreased as a result of the appreciation of the U.S. dollar on short-dated foreign exchange (&#147;FX&#148;) contracts. The percentage ofderivative exposure greater than 5&nbsp;years increased from 42% to 56% at year-end 2005, primarily as aresult of the reduction in shorter-dated exposure.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry concentrationThe Firm continues to focus on the management and diversification of industry concentrations,with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. As ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, the top 10 industries remained predominantly unchanged from year-end 2004, withthe exception of Oil and gas, which replaced Media. Below are summaries of the top 10 industryconcentrations as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004.&nbsp; &nbsp;Wholesale criticized exposureExposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of CCC&#043;/Caa1and lower, as defined by Standard & Poor's/Moody's. The criticized component of the portfoliodecreased to $5.2&nbsp;billion (excluding HFS) at December&nbsp;31, 2005, from $8.3&nbsp;billion at year-end 2004,reflecting strong credit quality, refinancings and gross charge-offs. Also contributing to thedecline was a refinement in methodology in the first quarter of 2005 to align the ratingsmethodologies of the heritage firms.At December&nbsp;31, 2005, Automotive, Telecom services and Retail and consumer services moved into thetop 10 of wholesale criticized exposure, replacing Chemicals/plastics, Business services andMetals/mining industries.Wholesale nonperforming assetsWholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale loans) decreased by$779&nbsp;million from $1.8&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2004, as a result of loan sales, repayments and gross charge-offs. For full year 2005,wholesale net recoveries were $77&nbsp;million compared with net charge-offs of $186&nbsp;million in 2004,primarily due to lower gross charge-offs. The net recovery rate for full year 2005 was 0.06%compared with a net charge-off rate of 0.18% for the prior year. Net charge-offs do not include $67million of gains from sales of nonperforming loans that were sold during 2005 to a counter-partyother than the original borrower. When it is determined that a loan will be sold it is transferredinto a held-for-sale account. Held-for-sale loans are accounted for at lower of cost or fair value,with changes in value recorded in other revenue.Wholesale criticized exposure &#150; industry concentrationsWholesale selected industry discussionPresented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significant exposureand which it continues to monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns. For additionalinformation, refer to the tables above and on the preceding page.Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm utilizes derivative instruments to meet the needs ofcustomers, to generate revenues through trading activities, to manage exposure to fluctuations ininterest rates, currencies and other markets and to manage its own credit risk. The Firm uses thesame credit risk management procedures as those used for its traditional lending activities toassess and approve potential credit exposures when entering into derivative transactions.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the reported derivativereceivables (i.e., the MTM or fair value of the derivative contracts after taking into account theeffects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market (&#147;MTM&#148;)The MTM of derivative receivables contracts represents the cost to replace the contracts atcurrent market rates should the counterparty default. When JPMorgan Chase has more than onetransaction outstanding with a counter-party, and a legally enforceable master netting agreementexists with that counterparty, the netted MTM exposure, less collateral held, represents, in theFirm's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk.While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;) andAverage exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, where applicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5% confidencelevel. However, the total potential future credit risk embedded in the Firm's derivatives portfoliois not the simple sum of all Peak client credit risks. This is because, at the portfolio level,credit risk is reduced by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separatecounterparties, only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss, even if both counterpartieswere to default simultaneously. The Firm refers to this effect as market diversification, and theMarket-Diversified Peak (&#147;MDP&#148;) measure is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,representing the maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if allcounterparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and time frame.Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;) exposure is a measure that expresses the riskiness of derivativeexposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the riskiness of loan exposures. The measurementis done by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes intoconsideration both the loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty) with theunexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of thecounterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure ofpotential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval ofderivative transactions.Finally, Average exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;) is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm's derivativereceivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over thetotal life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and isused to calculate credit capital and the Credit Valuation Adjustment(&#147;CVA&#148;), as further describedbelow. Average exposure was $36&nbsp;billion and $38&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,respectively, compared with derivative receivables MTM net of other highly liquid collateral of $44billion and $57&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.The graph below shows exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10&nbsp;years as calculated by theMDP, DRE and AVG metrics. All three measures generally show declining exposure after the firstyear, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measuresDecember&nbsp;31, 2005(in billions)&nbsp; &nbsp;The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, toreflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based upon the Firm's AVG exposure to acounterparty and the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primarycomponents of changes in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in theunderlying market environment. The Firm believes that active risk managementis essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. The Firm riskmanages exposure to changes in CVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well asinterest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity derivative transactions. The MTM value of theFirm's derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan Chase'scredit quality.The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheetsDerivative receivables MTM, net of cash and other liquid securities collateral, for the datesindicated:Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTMThe Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit riskin derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateralagreements increased slightly, to 81% as of December&nbsp;31, 2005, from 79% at December&nbsp;31, 2004. TheFirm posted $27&nbsp;billion and $31&nbsp;billion of collateral as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,respectively.Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterpartyand/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in their respective credit ratings, to post collateralfor the benefit of the other party. As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, the impact of a single-notch ratingsdowngrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, from its current rating of AA- to A&#043;, would have been anadditional $1.4&nbsp;billion of collateral posted by the Firm; the impact of a six-notch ratingsdowngrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.8&nbsp;billion of additional collateral. Certainderivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade ofeither the Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.Credit derivativesThe following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protectionpurchased and sold by the respective businesses as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004:Credit derivatives positionsIn managing wholesale credit exposure, the Firm purchases single-name and portfolio creditderivatives; this activity does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or thelevel of reported off-balance sheet commitments. The Firm also diversifies exposures by providing(i.e., selling) credit protection, which increases exposure to industries or clients where the Firmhas little or no client-related exposure. This activity is not material to the Firm's overallcredit exposure.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivativestransactions. Of the $50&nbsp;billion of total Derivative receivables at December&nbsp;31, 2005,approximately $4&nbsp;billion, or 8%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit ofliquid securities collateral.Dealer/clientAt December&nbsp;31, 2005, the total notional amount of protection purchased and sold in thedealer/client business increased $1.2 trillion from year-end 2004 as a result of increased tradevolume in the market. This business has a mismatch between the total notional amounts of protectionpurchased and sold. However, in the Firm's view, the risk positions are largely matched whensecurities used to risk manage certain derivative positions are taken into consideration and thenotional amounts are adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basis or to reflect different degreesof subordination in tranched structures.Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivativesCredit portfolio management activitiesThe credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and therefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 isnot performed. These derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized asTrading revenue. The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and changesin value due to movement in spreads and credit events; in contrast, the loans and lending-relatedcommitments being risk-managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Loan interest and fees aregenerally recognized in Net interest income, and impairment is recognized in the Provision forcredit losses. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-relatedcommitments and the credit derivatives utilized in portfolio management activities, causes earningsvolatility that is not representative, in the Firm's view, of the true changes in value of theFirm's overall credit exposure. The MTM related to the Firm's credit derivatives used for managingcredit exposure, as well as the mark related to the CVA, which reflects the credit quality ofderivatives counterparty exposure, are included in the table below:The Firm also actively manages wholesale credit exposure through loan and commitment sales.During 2005 and 2004, the Firm sold $4.0&nbsp;billion and $5.9&nbsp;billion of loans and commitments,respectively, recognizing gains of $76&nbsp;million and losses of $8&nbsp;million in 2005 and 2004,respectively. These activities are not related to the Firm's securitization activities, which areundertaken for liquidity and balance sheet management purposes. For a further discussion ofsecuritization activity, see Note 13 on pages 108&#150;111 of this Annual Report.Lending-related commitmentsThe contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was $324&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31,2005, compared with $309&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004. In the Firm's view, the total contractualamount of these instruments is not representative of the Firm'sactual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount of credit riskexposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as the basis forallocating credit risk capital to these instruments, the Firm has established a &#147;loan-equivalent&#148;amount for each commitment; this amount represents the portion of the unused commitment or othercontingent exposure that is expected, based upon average portfolio historical experience, to becomeoutstanding in the event of a default by an obligor. The loan equivalent amount of the Firm'slending-related commitments as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, was $178&nbsp;billion and $162&nbsp;billion,respectively.Country exposureThe Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and managing exposures and risk in emergingmarkets countries&#150;defined as those countries potentially vulnerable to sovereign events.Exposures to a country include all credit-related lending, trading, and investment activities,whether cross-border or locally funded. Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit enhancements(e.g., guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located outside the country, ifthe enhancements fully cover the country risk as well as the business risk. As of December&nbsp;31,2005, the Firm's exposure to any individual emerging markets country was not material.&nbsp; &nbsp;Consumer credit portfolio&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages and home equityloans, credit cards, auto and education financings and loans to small businesses. The domesticconsumer portfolio reflects thebenefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective. The primary focus ison serving the prime consumer credit market.Thefollowing table presents managed consumer credit-related information for the dates indicated:Consumer portfolio&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Total managed consumer loans at December&nbsp;31, 2005, were $340&nbsp;billion, up from $338&nbsp;billion atyear-end 2004. Consumer lending-related commitments increased by 9% to $656&nbsp;billion at December31, 2005, reflecting growth in credit cards and home equity lines of credit. The followingdiscussion relates to the specific loan and lending-related categories within the consumerportfolio.Retail Financial ServicesAverage RFS loan balances for 2005 were $198&nbsp;billion. New loans originated in 2005 reflect highcredit quality consistent with management's focus on the prime credit market segment. The netcharge-off rate for retail loans in 2005 was 0.31%, a decrease of 36 basis points from 2004. Thisdecrease was attributable primarily to $406&nbsp;million of charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 2004associated with the sale of the $4.0&nbsp;billion manufactured home loan portfolio. Excluding thesecharge-offs, the net charge-off rate would have improved eight basis points.Home Finance: Home finance loans on the balance sheet at December&nbsp;31, 2005, were $133&nbsp;billion. Thisamount consisted of $77&nbsp;billion of home equity and other loans and $56&nbsp;billion of mortgages,including mortgage loans held-for-sale. Home finance receivables as of December&nbsp;31, 2005, reflectan increase of $9&nbsp;billion from year-end 2004 driven by growth in the home equity portfolio. HomeFinance provides consumer real estate lending to the full spectrum of credit borrowers, including$15&nbsp;billion in sub-prime credits at December&nbsp;31, 2005. Home Finance does not offer mortgageproducts that result in negative amortization but does offer mortgages with interest-only paymentoptions to predominantly prime borrowers.The geographic distribution of outstanding consumer real estate loans is well diversified as shownin the table below.Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic locationAuto & Education Finance: As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, Auto & education finance loans decreased to$49&nbsp;billion from $63&nbsp;billion at year-end 2004. The decrease in outstanding loans was causedprimarily by a difficult auto lending market in 2005, $3.8&nbsp;billion in securitizations, the sale ofthe $2.0&nbsp;billion recreational vehicle portfolio and the de-emphasis of vehicle leasing, whichcomprised $4.4&nbsp;billion of outstanding loans as of December&nbsp;31, 2005. It is anticipated that overtime vehicle leases will account for a smaller share of balance sheet receivables and exposure. TheAuto & Education loan portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime quality credits.Consumer & Small Business and other: As of December&nbsp;31, 2005, Small business & other consumer loansremained relatively stable at $14.8&nbsp;billion compared with 2004&nbsp;year-end levels of $15.1&nbsp;billion.The portfolio reflects highly collateralized loans, often with personal loan guarantees.Card ServicesJPMorgan Chase analyzes the credit card portfolio on a managed basis, which includes credit cardreceivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those receivables sold to investors throughsecuritization. Managed credit card receivables were $142&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2005, an increaseof $7&nbsp;billion from year-end 2004, reflecting solid growth in the business as well as the additionof $2.2&nbsp;billion of receivables as a result of the acquisition of the Sears Canada credit cardbusiness.Consumer credit quality trends remained stable despite the effects of increased losses due tobankruptcy legislation, which became effective October&nbsp;17, 2005. The managed credit card netcharge-off rate decreased to 5.21% in 2005 from 5.27% in 2004. The 30-day delinquency ratesdeclined significantly to 2.79% in 2005 from 3.70% in 2004, primarily driven by accelerated lossrecognition of delinquent accounts as a result of the bankruptcy reform legislation and strongunderlying credit quality. The managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect a well-seasonedportfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification.&nbsp; &nbsp;Allowance for credit losses&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable credit losses,including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or the size of the loss has notbeen fully determined. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the ChiefRisk Officer of the Firm, the Risk Policy Committee, a subgroup of the Operating Committee, and theAudit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Firm. The allowance is reviewed relative to therisk profile of the Firm's credit portfolio and current economic conditions and is adjusted if, inmanagement's judgment, changesare warranted. The allowance includes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component,the latter of which consists of a statistical calculation and adjustments to the statisticalcalculation. For further discussion of the components of the Allowance for credit losses, seeCritical accounting estimates used by the Firm on page 81 and Note 12 on pages 107&#150;108 of thisAnnual Report. At December&nbsp;31, 2005, management deemed the allowance for credit losses to besufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio, including losses that are notspecifically identified or for which the size of the loss has not yet been fully determined.Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The reduction in the allowance for credit losses of $322&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2004, wasdriven primarily by continued credit strength in the wholesale businesses, partially offset by anincrease in the consumer allowance as a result of the special provision taken in the third quarterof 2005 due to Hurricane Katrina.Excluding held-for-sale loans, the allowance for loan losses represented 1.84% of loans at December31, 2005, compared with 1.94% at December&nbsp;31, 2004. The wholesale component of the allowancedecreased to $2.5&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2005, from $3.1&nbsp;billion at year-end 2004, due tostrong credit quality across all wholesale businesses. Excluding the special provisionfor Hurricane Katrina, the consumer component of the allowance would have been $4.3&nbsp;billion as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, a slight increase from December&nbsp;31, 2004.To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process of extending credit, management alsocomputes an asset-specific component and a formula-based componentfor wholesale lending-relatedcommitments. These are computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loanportfolio, modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown. This allowance, which isreported in Other liabilities, was $400&nbsp;million and $492&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,respectively.Provision for credit lossesFor a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses, see page 29 of this AnnualReport. The managed provision for credit losses reflects credit card securitizations. At December31, 2005, securitized credit card outstandings were relatively flat compared with the prioryear-end.&nbsp; &nbsp;Market risk management&nbsp;Market risk is the exposure to an adverse change in the market value of portfolios andfinancial instruments caused by a change in market prices or rates.Market risk managementMarket Risk Management (&#147;MRM&#148;) is an independent corporate risk governance function thatidentifies, measures, monitors, and controls market risk. It seeks to facilitate efficientrisk/return decisions and to reduce volatility in operating performance. It strives to make theFirm's market risk profile transparent to senior management, the Board of Directors and regulators.Market Risk Management is overseen by the Chief Risk Officer, a member of the Firm's OperatingCommittee. MRM's governance structure consists of the following primary functions:In addition, the Firm's business segments have valuation control functions that are responsible forensuring the accuracy of the valuations of positions that expose the Firm to market risk. Thesegroups report primarily into Finance.Risk identification and classificationMRM works in partnership with the business segments to identify market risks throughout theFirm and to refine and monitor market risk policies and procedures. All business segments areresponsible for comprehensive identification and verification of market risks within their units.Risk-taking businesses have functions that act independently from trading personnel and areresponsible for verifying risk exposures that the business takes. In addition to providingindependent oversight for market risk arising from the business segments, MRM also is responsiblefor identifying exposures which may not be large within individual business segments, but which maybe large for the Firm in aggregate. Regular meetings are held between MRM and the heads ofrisk-taking businesses to discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context of the marketenvironment and client flows.Positions that expose the Firm to market risk can be classified into two categories: trading andnontrading risk. Trading risk includes positions that are held by the Firm as part of a businesssegment or unit whose main business strategy is to trade or make markets. Unrealized gains andlosses in these positions are generally reported in trading revenue. Nontrading risk includessecurities held for longer term investment, mortgage servicing rights, and securities andderivatives used to manage the Firm's asset/liability exposures. Unrealized gains and losses inthese positions are generally not reported in Trading revenue.Trading riskFixed income risk (which includes interest rate risk and credit spread risk) involves the potentialdecline in net income or financial condition due to adverse changes in market rates, whetherarising from client activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.Foreign exchange, equities and commodities risks involve the potential decline in net income to theFirm due to adverse changes in foreign exchange, equities or commodities markets, whether arisingfrom client activities or proprietary positions taken by the Firm.Nontrading riskNontrading risk arises from execution of the Firm's core business strategies, the delivery ofproducts and services to its customers, and the discretionary positions the Firm undertakes torisk-manage exposures.These exposures can result from a variety of factors, including differences in the timing among thematurity or repricing of assets, liabilities and off&#150;balance sheet instruments. Changes in thelevel and shape of market interest rate curves also may create interest rate risk, since therepricing characteristics of the Firm's assets do not necessarily match those of its liabilities.The Firm also is exposed to basis risk, which is the difference in re-pricing characteristics oftwo floating rate indices, such as the prime rate and 3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of theFirm's products have embedded optionality that impact pricing and balances.The Firm's mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate risks. The interestrate exposure from the Firm's mortgage banking activities is a result of changes in the level ofinterest rates, option and basis risk. Option risk arises primarily from prepayment optionsembedded in mortgages and changes in the probability of newly-originated mortgage commitmentsactually closing. Basis risk results from different relative movements between mortgage rates andother interest rates.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses various metrics,both statistical and nonstatistical, including:Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions, basis pointvalues, option sensitivities, market values, position concentrations and position turnover. Thesemeasures provide granular information on the Firm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated byline of business and by risk type, and are used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals andtactical control.Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure, VAR, estimates the potential loss from adversemarket moves in an ordinary market environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure ofrisk profiles and levels of diversification. VAR is used for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring limits, one-off approvals, and as an input to economic capital calculations. VARprovides risk transparency in a normal trading environment.Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes both itstrading and its nontrading activities. VAR for nontrading activities measures the amount ofpotential change in fair value of the exposures related to these activities; however, VAR for suchactivities is not a measure of reported revenue since nontrading activities are generally notmarked to market through earnings.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historical simulation, which measures risk across instrumentsand portfolios in a consistent and comparable way. This approach assumes that historical changes inmarket values are representative of future changes. The simulation is based upon data for theprevious twelvemonths. The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and an expected tail lossmethodology, which approximates a 99% confidence level. This means the Firm would expect to incurlosses greater than that predicted by VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about2.5 times a year.Trading VARIB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR(a)IB'sAverage Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR decreased to $88&nbsp;million during 2005 compared with$90&nbsp;million for the same period in 2004. Period-end VAR increased over the same period to $108million from $78&nbsp;million. Commodities and other VAR increased due to the expansion of the energytrading business. The decrease in average Total Trading and Credit Portfolio VAR was driven byincreased portfolio diversification as fixed income risk decreased and foreign exchange, equitiesand commodities risk increased. Trading VAR diversification increased to $59&nbsp;million, or 41% of thesum of the components, from $43&nbsp;million, or 34% of the sum of the components. The diversificationeffect between the trading portfolio and the credit portfolio also increased to $12&nbsp;million, or 12%of the sum of the components, from $9&nbsp;million, or 9% of the sum of the components. In general, overthe course of the year, VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading positions change, marketvolatility fluctuates and diversification benefits change.VAR backtestingTo evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, the Firm conducts daily backtesting of VAR againstdaily financial results, based upon market risk-related revenue. Market risk-related revenue isdefined as the change in value of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus any trading-relatednet interest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue. The followinghistogram illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for the IB trading businessesfor the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2005. The chart shows that the IB posted market risk-related gainson 208 out of 260&nbsp;days in this period, with 20&nbsp;days exceeding $100&nbsp;million. The inset graph looksat those days on which the IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR exceeded theactual loss on each of those days. Losses were sustained on 52&nbsp;days, with no loss greater than $90million, and with no loss exceeding the VAR measure.&nbsp; &nbsp;Loss advisoriesLoss advisories are tools used to highlight to senior management trading losses above certainlevels and are used to initiate discussion of remedies.Economic value stress testingWhile VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets, stress testingcaptures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. The Firmconducts economic-value stress tests for both its trading and its nontrading activities usingmultiple scenarios for both types of activities. Periodically, scenarios are reviewed and updatedto reflect changes in the Firm's risk profile and economic events. Stress testing is as importantas VAR in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing enhances the understanding of the Firm'srisk profile and loss potential, and is used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals andcross-business risk measurement, as well as an input to economic capital allocation.Based upon the Firm's stress scenarios, the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB's tradingportfolio ranged from $469&nbsp;million to $1.4&nbsp;billion, and $202&nbsp;million to $1.2&nbsp;billion, for the yearsended December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2004 results include six months of the combinedFirm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.Earnings-at-risk stress testingThe VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity of theFirm's balance sheet to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure onreported Net income also is critical. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's core nontradingbusiness activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from on&#150; and off&#150;balancesheet positions. The Firm conducts simulations of changes in NII from its nontrading activitiesunder a variety of interest rate scenarios, which are consistent with the scenarios used foreconomic-value stress testing. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in the Firm'sNet interest income over the next 12&nbsp;months and highlight exposures to various rate-sensitivefactors, such as the rates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies ondeposits, optionality and changes in product mix. The tests include forecasted balance sheetchanges, such as asset sales and securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes in the slope of the yield curve, because the Firm hasthe ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-term fixed rates. Based uponthese scenarios, the Firm's earnings would be affected negatively by a sudden and unanticipatedincrease in short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates. Conversely,higher long-term rates generally are beneficial to earnings, particularly when the increase is notaccompanied by rising short-term rates.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number ofalternative scenarios also are reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios areintended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide range ofoutcomes.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profile as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,follows:The Firm's risk to rising and falling interest rates is due primarily to correspondingincreases and decreases in short-term funding costs.RIFLEIndividuals who manage risk positions, particularly those that are complex, are responsible foridentifying potential losses that could arise from specific unusual events, such as a potential taxchange, and estimating the probabilities of losses arising from such events. This information isentered into the Firm's RIFLE system and directed to the appropriate level of management, therebypermitting the Firm to identify further earnings vulnerability not adequately covered by standardrisk measures.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through a series of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's riskappetite in the context of the market environment and business strategy. In setting limits, theFirm takes into consideration factors such as market volatility, product liquidity, business trackrecord and management experience.MRM regularly reviews and updates risk limits, and senior management reviews and approves risklimits at least once a year. MRM further controls the Firm's exposure by specifically designatingapproved financial instruments and tenors, known as instrument authorities, for each businesssegment.The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits include VAR, stress and lossadvisories. Similarly, line of business limits include VAR, stress and loss advisories, and aresupplemented by nonstatistical measure-ments and instrument authorities. Businesses are responsible for adhering to established limits,against which exposures are monitored and reported. Limit breaches are reported in a timely mannerto senior management, and the affected business segment is required to take appropriate action toreduce trading positions. If the business cannot do this within an acceptable timeframe, seniormanagement is consulted on the appropriate action.Qualitative reviewMRM also performs periodic reviews as necessary of both businesses and products with exposure tomarket risk in order to assess the ability of the businesses to control their market risk.Strategies, market conditions, product details and risk controls are reviewed, and specificrecommendations for improvements are made to management.Model reviewSome of the Firm's financial instruments cannot be valued based upon quoted market prices but areinstead valued using pricing models. Such models are used for management of risk positions, such asreporting against limits, as well as for valuation. The Model Risk Group, independent of thebusinesses and MRM, reviews the models the Firm uses and assesses model appropriateness andconsistency. The model reviews consider a number of factors about the model's suitability forvaluation and risk management of a particular product, including whether it accurately reflects thecharacteristics of the transaction and its significant risks, the suitabilityand convergence properties of numerical algorithms, reliability of data sources, consistency of thetreatment with models for similar products, and sensitivity to input parameters and assumptionsthat cannot be priced from the market.Reviews are conducted for new or changed models, as well as previously accepted models, to assesswhether there have been any changes in the product or market that may impact the model's validityand whether there are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment of themodel's adequacy. For a summary of valuations based upon models, see Critical Accounting Estimatesused by the Firm on pages 81&#150;83 of this Annual Report.Risk reportingNonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, loss advisories and limit excesses are reported dailyfor each trading and nontrading business. Market risk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profitand loss changes, and portfolio concentrations are reported weekly. Stress test results arereported monthly to business and senior management.&nbsp; &nbsp;Operational risk management&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems,human factors or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm's businesses and support activities. Operationalrisk can manifest itself in various ways, including errors, business interruptions, inappropriatebehavior of employees and vendors that do not perform in accordance with outsourcing arrangements.These events can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm, includingreputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system of comprehensive policies anda control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. Thegoal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength,the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing traditional control-based approaches to operational risk with risk measures, toolsand disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.During 2005, the Firm substantially completed the implementation of Phoenix, a newinternally-designed operational risk software tool. Phoenix integrates the individual components ofthe operational risk management framework into a unified, web-based tool. Phoenix is intended toenable the Firm to enhance its reporting and analysis of operational risk data by enabling riskidentification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and analysis to be done in an integrated manner,thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm's management of its operational risk.For purposes of identification, monitoring, reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizesoperational risk events as follows:Risk identification and measurementRisk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that management believes maygive rise to operational losses.In 2005, JPMorgan Chase substantially completed a multi-year effort to redesign the underlyingarchitecture of its firmwide self-assessment process. The goal of the self-assessment process isfor each business to identify the key operational risks specific to its environment and assess thedegree to which it maintains appropriate controls. Action plans are developed for control issuesidentified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving these issues on a timelybasis.All businesses were required to perform self-assessments in 2005. Going forward, the Firm willutilize the self-assessment process as a dynamic risk management tool.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, permitting analysis of errorsand losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed both at a line of business level and byrisk-event type, enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data can be supplemented with external data forcomparative analysis with industry patterns. The data reported will enable the Firm to back-testagainst self-assessment results.Risk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information, including informationabout actual operational loss levels and self-assessment results, to the lines of business andsenior management. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintain operationalrisk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and to provideconsistent data aggregation across the Firm's businesses and support areas.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independent assessmentof the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatory complianceand reporting. Audit partners with business management and members of the control community inproviding guidance on the operational risk framework and reviewing the effectiveness and accuracyof the business self-assessment process as part of its business unit audits.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Reputation and fiduciary risk management&nbsp;A firm's success depends not only on its prudent management of liquidity, credit, market andoperational risks that are part of its business risks, but equally on the maintenance among manyconstituents &#150; clients, investors, regulators, as well as the general public &#150; of a reputationfor business practices of the highest quality. Attention to reputation has always been a key aspectof the Firm's practices, and maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of everyone at theFirm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many ways, including through theFirm's Code of Conduct, training, maintaining adherence to policies and procedures andoversight functions that approve transactions. These oversight functions include a ConflictsOffice, which examines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of interestfor the Firm.Policy review officeThe Firm also has a specific structure to address certain transactions with clients, especiallycomplex derivatives and structured finance transactions, that have the potential to adverselyaffect its reputation. This structure reinforces the Firm's procedures for examining transactionsin terms of appropriateness, ethical issues and reputational risk, and it intensifies the Firm'sscrutiny of the purpose and effect of its transactions from the client's point of view, with thegoal that these transactions are not used to mislead investors or others. The structure operates atthree levels: as part of every business' transaction approval process; through review by regionalReputation Risk Committees; and through oversight by the Policy Review Office.Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed to address reputationrisk lies with the business units conducting the transactions in question. The Firm's transactionapproval process requires review from, among others, internal legal/compliance, conflicts, tax andaccounting groups. Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm receive particularscrutiny intended to ensure that every such entity is properly approved, documented, monitored andcontrolled.Business units are also required to submit to regional Reputation RiskCommittees proposed transactions that may give rise to heightened reputation risk &#150; particularly aclient's motivation and its intended financial disclosure of the transaction. The committees mayapprove, reject or require further clarification on or changes to the transactions. The members ofthese committees are senior representatives of the business and support units in the region. Thecommittees may escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transactions involvingreputation risk issues. The mandate of the Office is to opine on specific transactions brought bythe Regional Committees and consider changes in policies or practices relating to reputation risk.The head of the Office consults with the Firm's most senior executives on specific topics andprovides regular updates. Aside from governance and guidance on specific transactions, theobjective of the policy review process is to reinforce a culture, through a &#147;case study&#148; approach,that ensures that all employees, regardless of seniority, understand the basic principles ofreputation risk control and can recognize and address issues as they arise.In 2006, this structure, which until now has been focused primarily on Investment Bank activities,will be expanded to include the activities of Commercial Banking and the Private Bank. These linesof business will implement training and review procedures similar to those in the Investment Bankand their activities also will be subject to the oversight of the Policy Review Office.Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line of business include in their mandate the oversightof the legal, reputational and, where appropriate, fiduciary risks in their businesses that mayproduce significant losses or reputational damage. The Fiduciary Risk Management function workswith the relevant line of business risk committees to ensure that businesses providing investmentor risk management products or services that give rise to fiduciary duties to clients perform atthe appropriate standard relative to their fiduciary relationship with a client. Of particularfocus are the policies and practices that address a business' responsibilities to a client,including client suitability determination, disclosure obligations, disclosure communications andperformance expectations with respect to such of the investment and risk management products orservices being provided by the Firm that give rise to such fiduciary duties. In this way, therelevant line-of-business risk committees, together with the Fiduciary Risk Management function,provide oversight of the Firm's efforts to monitor, measure and control the risks that may arise inthe delivery of the products or services to clients that give rise to such duties, as well asthose stemming from any of the Firm's fiduciary responsibilities to employees under the Firm'svarious employee benefit plans.Private equity risk management&nbsp;Risk managementThe Firm makes direct principal investments in private equity. The illiquid nature and long-termholding period associated with these investments differentiates private equity risk from the riskof positions held in the trading portfolios. The Firm's approach to managing private equity risk isconsistent with the Firm's general risk governance structure. Controls are in place establishingtarget levels for total and annual investment in order to control the overall size of theportfolio. Industry and geographic concentration limits are in place&nbsp;intended to ensure diversification of the portfolio, and periodic reviews are performed on theportfolio to substantiate the valuations of the investments. The Valuation Control Group within theFinance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private equityinvestments held by Private Equity. At December&nbsp;31, 2005, the carrying value of the private equityportfolios of JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners businesses was $6.2&nbsp;billion, of which $479million represented positions traded in the public market.&nbsp; &nbsp;Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understanding itsreported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment toascertain the valuation of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies andcontrol procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as partof such methods, are well controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from periodto period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process forchanging methodologies occurs in a controlled and appropriate manner. The Firm believes itsestimates for determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. Thefollowing is a brief description of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significantvaluation judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and consumer loan portfolios aswell as the Firm's portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments. The Allowance for loanlosses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets for probable credit losses as ofthe balance sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing theFirm's Allowance for credit losses, see Note 12 on pages 107&#150;108 of this Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the Allowance forlending-related commitments involves significant judgment. First and foremost, it involves theearly identification of credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves management judgment toderive loss factors. Third, it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomicfactors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio and to refine loss factors to better reflect theseconditions.The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill itsobligations. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors consideredinclude the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings,the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength,and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based upon anevaluation of historical and current information, and involve subjective assessment andinterpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another, or considering additional factors that may berelevant in determining the risk rating of a particular loan but which are not currently anexplicit part of the Firm's methodology, could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to thatloan.Management applies its judgment to derive loss factors associated with each credit facility. Theseloss factors are determined by facility structure, collateral and type of obligor. Whereverpossible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical loss experiencein its models for estimating these loss factors. Many factors can affect management's estimates ofloss, including volatility of loss given default, probability of default and rating migrations.Judgment is applied to determine whether the loss given default should be calculated as an averageover the entire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle. The application ofdifferent loss given default factors would change the amount of the Allowance for credit lossesdetermined appropriate by the Firm. Similarly, there are judgments as to which externaldata on probability of default should be used and when they should be used. Choosing data that arenot reflective of the Firm's specific loan portfolio characteristics could also affect lossestimates.Managementalso applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived, taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yetreflected in the loss factors. The resultant adjustments to the statistical calculation on theperforming portfolio are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experience ofboth loss given default and probability of default. Factors related to concentrated anddeteriorating industries are also incorporated where relevant. The estimated ranges and thedetermination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon management's view ofuncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality ofunderwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the creditquality of the current portfolio. The adjustment to the statistical calculation for the wholesaleloan portfolio for the period ended December&nbsp;31, 2005, was $621&nbsp;million, the higher-end within therange, based upon management's assessment of current economic conditions.Consumer loansFor scored loans in the consumer lines of business, loss is primarily determined by applyingstatistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type. These lossestimates are sensitive to changes in delinquency status, credit bureau scores, the realizablevalue of collateral and other risk factors.Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzing the historicalloss experience for each major product segment. Management analyzes the range of credit lossexperienced for each major portfolio segment, taking into account economic cycles, portfolioseasoning and underwriting criteria, and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant riskfactors that impact overall credit performance. The recorded adjustment to the statisticalcalculation for the period ended December&nbsp;31, 2005, was $1.2&nbsp;billion, based upon management'sassessment of current economic conditions.Fair value of financial instrumentsA portion of JPMorgan Chase's assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, including tradingassets and liabilities, AFS securities and private equity investments. Held-for-sale loans,mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;) and commodities inventory are carried at the lower of fair valueor cost. At December&nbsp;31, 2005, approximately $386&nbsp;billion of the Firm's assets were recorded atfair value.The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could beexchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidationsale. The majority of the Firm's assets reported at fair value are based upon quoted market pricesor on internally developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters, includinginterest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrumentis dependent upon the availability of quoted market prices or observable market parameters. Forfinancial instruments that are actively traded and have quoted market prices or parameters readilyavailable, there is little-to-no subjectivity in determining fair value. When observable marketprices and parameters do not exist, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Thevaluation process takes into consideration&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.factors such as liquidity and concentration concerns and, for the derivatives portfolio,counterparty credit risk (see the discussion of CVA on page 70 of this Annual Report). For example,there is often limited market data to rely on when estimating the fair value of a large or agedposition. Similarly, judgment must be applied in estimating prices for less readily observableexternal parameters. Finally, other factors such as model assumptions, market dislocations andunexpected correlations can affect estimates of fair value. Imprecision in estimating these factorscan impact the amount of revenue or loss recorded for a particular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfoliosSubstantially all of the Firm's securities held for trading and investment purposes (&#147;long&#148;positions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own (&#147;short&#148;positions) are valued based upon quoted market prices. However, certain securities are less activelytraded and, therefore, are not always able to be valued based upon quoted market prices. Thedetermination of their fair value requires management judgment, as this determination may requirebenchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing default and recovery rates. Examples includecertain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities.As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of the Firm's derivativepositions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observablemarket parameters &#150; that is, parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated to externalsources, including industry-pricing services. Certain derivatives, however, are valued based uponmodels with significant unobservable market parameters &#150; that is, parameters that must beestimated and are, therefore, subject to management judgment to substantiate the model valuation.These instruments are normally either less actively traded or trade activity is one-way. Examplesinclude long-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where swap rates may be unobservable for longermaturities, and certain credit products, where correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. Dueto the lack of observable market data, the Firm defers the initial trading profit for thesefinancial instruments. The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basisand when observable market data becomes available. Management's judgment also includes recordingfair value adjustments (i.e., reductions) to model valuations to account for parameter uncertaintywhen valuing complex or less actively traded derivative transactions. The following tablesummarizes the Firm's trading and available-for-sale portfolios by valuation methodology atDecember&nbsp;31, 2005:To ensure that the valuations are appropriate, the Firm has various controls in place. Theseinclude: an independent review and approval of valuation models; detailed review and explanationfor profit and loss analyzed daily and over time; decomposing the model valuations for certainstructured derivative instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations, wherepossible, to similar products; and validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricingfor certain derivative products becomes more transparent, the Firm refines its valuationmethodologies. The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area, a group independent of therisk-taking function, is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the valuations of positionstaken within the Investment Bank.For a discussion of market risk management, including the model review process, see Market riskmanagement on pages 75&#150;78 of this Annual Report. For further details regarding the Firm'svaluation methodologies, see Note 29 on pages 126&#150;128 of this Annual Report.Loans held-for-saleThe fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio is generally based upon observable marketprices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similarcharacteristics. If market prices are not available, fair value is based upon the estimated cashflows adjusted for credit risk that is discounted using a rate appropriate for each maturity thatincorporates the effects of interest rate changes.Commodities inventoryThe majority of commodities inventory includes bullion and base metals where fair value isdetermined by reference to prices in highly active and liquid markets. The fair value of othercommodities inventory is determined primarily using prices and data derived from less liquid anddeveloping markets where the underlying commodities are traded.Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business within Corporaterequires significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, inherent lackof liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. Private investments are initially valuedbased upon cost. The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect bothpositive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers. Inaddition, these investments are subject to ongoing impairment reviews by Private Equity's seniorinvestment professionals. A variety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairmentincluding, but not limited to, operating performance and future expectations of the particularportfolio investment, industry valuations of comparable public companies, changes in market outlookand the third-party financing environment over time. The Valuation Control Group within the Financearea is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of private investments heldby Private Equity. For additional information about private equity investments,&nbsp; &nbsp;see the Private equity risk management discussion on page 80 and Note 9 on pages 103&#150;105 ofthis Annual Report.MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do not trade in an active,open market with readily observable prices. For example, sales of MSRs do occur, but the preciseterms and conditions are typically not readily available. Accordingly, the Firm estimates the fairvalue of MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations using discounted future cashflow (DCF)&nbsp;models.For MSRs, the model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees andprepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenues, costs to serviceand other economic factors. During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company began utilizing anoption adjusted spread (&#147;OAS&#148;) valuation approach when determining the fair value of MSRs. Thisapproach, when used in conjunction with the Firm's proprietary prepayment model, projects MSR cashflows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates, toestimate an expected fair value of the MSRs. The OAS valuation approach is expected to provideimproved estimates of fair value. The initial valuation of MSRs under OAS did not have a materialimpact to the Firm's financial statements.For certain other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest only strips), a singleinterest rate path DCF model is used and generally includes assumptions based upon projectedfinance charges related to the securitized assets, estimated net credit losses, prepaymentassumptions, and contractual interest paid to the third-party investors. Changes in the assumptionsused may have a significant impact on the Firm's valuation of retained interests.For both MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizations, the Firm compares its fairvalue estimates and assumptions to observable market data where available and to recent marketactivity and actual portfolio experience. Management believes that the assumptions used to estimatefair values are supportable and reasonable.For a further discussion of the most significant assumptions used to value retained interests insecuritizations and MSRs, as well as the applicable stress tests for those assumptions, see Notes13 and 15 on pages 108&#150;111 and 114&#150;116, respectively, of this Annual Report.Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment. The Firmtests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, suchas adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conductingan interim test. Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which is generallyone level below the six major business segments identified in Note 31 on pages 130&#150;131 of thisAnnual Report, plus Private Equity which is included in Corporate). The first part of the test is acomparison, at the reporting unit level, of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carryingamount, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, then the second partof the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment. The implied fairvalue of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared to the carrying amount of goodwillrecorded in the Firm's financial records. If the carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceedsthe implied fair value of that goodwill, then the Firm would recognize an impairment loss in theamount of the difference, which would be recorded as a charge against Net income.The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash flow models based uponeach reporting unit's internal forecasts. In addition, analysis using market-based trading andtransaction multiples, where available, are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuationsderived from the discounted cash flow models.Goodwill was not impaired as of December&nbsp;31, 2005 or 2004, nor was any goodwill written off due toimpairment during the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. See Note 15 on page 114 of thisAnnual Report for additional information related to the nature and accounting for goodwill and thecarrying values of goodwill by major business segment.Accounting and reporting developments&nbsp;Accounting for income taxes &#150; repatriation of foreign earnings under the American JobsCreation Act of 2004On October&nbsp;22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the &#147;Act&#148;) was signed into law. TheAct creates a temporary incentive for U.S. companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings ata substantially reduced U.S. effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on therepatriation of certain foreign earnings to the U.S. taxpayer (the &#147;repatriation provision&#148;). Thenew deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Firm applied the repatriation provision to $1.9&nbsp;billion of cashfrom foreign earnings, resulting in a net tax benefit of $55&nbsp;million. The $1.9&nbsp;billion of cash willbe used in accordance with the Firm's domestic reinvestment plan pursuant to the guidelines setforth in the Act.Accounting for share-based paymentsIn December&nbsp;2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25. In March2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (&#147;SEC&#148;) issued SAB 107 which provides interpretiveguidance on SFAS 123R. Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS123 approach. However, SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments toemployees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statementbased upon their fair values. Pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative. SFAS 123R permitsadoption using one of two methods &#150; modified prospective or modified retrospective. In April&nbsp;2005, the SEC approved a new rule that,for public companies, delays the effective date of SFAS 123R to no later than January&nbsp;1, 2006. TheFirm adopted SFAS 123R on January&nbsp;1, 2006, under the modified prospective method.The Firm continued to account for certain stock options that were outstanding as of December&nbsp;31,2002, under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method. Therefore, compensation expense for somepreviously granted awards that was not recognized under SFAS 123 will be recognized commencingJanuary&nbsp;1, 2006, under SFAS 123R. Had the Firm adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods, the impact wouldhave approximated that shown in the SFAS 123 pro forma disclosures in Note 7 on pages 100&#150;102 ofthis Annual Report, which presents net income and earnings per share as if all outstanding awardswere accounted for at fair value.Prior to adopting SFAS 123R, the Firm's accounting policy for share-based payment awardsgranted to retirement-eligible employees was to recognize&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.compensation cost over the awards' stated service period. For awards granted toretirement-eligible employees in January 2006, which are subject to SFAS&nbsp;123R, the Firm willrecognize compensation expense on the grant date without giving consideration to the impact of post-employmentrestrictions. This will result inan increase in compensation expense for the fiscal quarter endedMarch&nbsp;31, 2006 of approximately $300&nbsp;million, as comparedwith the expense that would have been recognized under theFirm's prior accounting policy. The Firm will also accrue in 2006 the estimated cost of stock awards to be granted to retirement-eligible employees in January 2007.Accounting for conditional asset retirement obligationsIn March&nbsp;2005, FASB issued FIN 47 to clarify the term &#147;conditional asset retirement obligation&#148; asused in SFAS 143. Conditional asset retirement obligations are legal obligations to perform anasset retirement activity in which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional basedupon a future event that may or may not be within the control of the company. The obligation toperform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even though uncertainty exists about thetiming and/or method of settlement. FIN 47 clarifies that a company is required to recognize aliability for the fair value of the conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value ofthe liability can be reasonably estimated and provides guidance for determining when a companywould have sufficient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of the obligation. The Firm adopted FIN 47 on December&nbsp;31, 2005. The implementationdid not have a material impact on its financial position or results of operations.Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments &#150;an Amendment of FASB Statements No.&nbsp;133 and 140In February&nbsp;2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155, which applies to certain &#147;hybrid financialinstruments,&#148; which are instruments that contain embedded derivatives. The new standard establishesa requirement to evaluate beneficial interests in securitized financial assets to determine if theinterests represent freestanding derivatives or are hybrid financial instruments containingembedded derivatives requiring bifurcation.This new standard also permits an election for fair value remeasurement of any hybrid financialinstrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under SFAS133. The fair value election can be applied on an instrument-by-instrument basis to existinginstruments at the date of adoption and can be applied to new instruments on a prospective basis.Currently, the Firm is planning to adopt this standard effective January&nbsp;1, 2006. In addition, theFirm is assessing to which qualifying existing and newly issued instruments it will apply the fairvalue election. Implementation of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on theFirm's financial position or results of operations.Nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts at fair value&nbsp;In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commodity derivativecontracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair valueestimation techniques, which are primarily based upon internal models with significant observablemarket parameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts are primarilyenergy-related contracts. The following table summarizes the changes in fair value fornonexchange-traded commodity derivative contracts for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2005:The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity derivativecontracts at December&nbsp;31, 2005:&nbsp;
