Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.This section of the Annual Report provides management's discussion and analysis (&#147;MD&A&#148;) ofthe financial condition and results of operations for JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms onpage 131 for a definition of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included in thisAnnual Report contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the PrivateSecurities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs andexpectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and are subject tosignificant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause JPMorganChase's results to differ materially from those set forth in such forward-looking statements. Suchrisks and uncertainties are described herein and in Part&nbsp;I,Item&nbsp;1: Business, Importantfactors that may affect future results, in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on Form 10-K for theyear ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available atthe Commission's website (www.sec.gov), to which reference is hereby made.IntroductionJPMorgan Chase & Co. (&#147;JPMorgan Chase&#148; or the &#147;Firm&#148;), a financial holding companyincorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one of thelargest banking institutions in the United States, with $1.2 trillion in assets, $106&nbsp;billion instockholders' equity and operations in more than 50 countries. The Firm is a leader in investmentbanking, financial services for consumers and businesses, financial transaction processing,investment management, private banking and private equity. JPMorgan Chase serves more than 90million customers, including consumers nationwide and many of the world's most prominent wholesaleclients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association(&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank&#148;), a national banking association with branches in 17 states; andChase Bank USA, National Association, a national bank headquartered in Delaware that is the Firm'scredit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan SecuritiesInc. (&#147;JPMSI&#148;), its U.S. investment banking firm.The headquarters for JPMorgan Chase is in New York City. The retail banking business, whichincludes the consumer banking, small business banking and consumer lending activities with theexception of credit card, is headquartered in Chicago. Chicago also serves as the headquarters forthe commercial banking business.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes, into six businesssegments, as well as Corporate. The Firm's wholesale businesses are comprised of the InvestmentBank, Commercial Banking, Treasury & Securities Services, and Asset & Wealth Management. The Firm'sconsumer businesses are comprised of Retail Financial Services and Card Services. A description ofthe Firm's business segments, and the products and services they provide to their respective clientbases, follows:Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth ofits client relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) has extensiverelationships with corporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investorsworldwide. The Firm provides a full range of investment banking products and services, includingadvising on corporate strategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management, and market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments inall major capital markets. The IB also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing andtrading activities.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;) includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking,Auto & Education Finance and Insurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm providesconsumers and small businesses with a broad range of financial products and services includingdeposits, investments, loans and insurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer realestate loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers ofhome mortgages. Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest branch networks in theUnited States, covering 17 states with 2,508 branches and 6,650 automated teller machines. Auto &Education Finance is the largest bank originator of automobile loans as well as a top provider ofloans for college students. Through its Insurance operations, the Firm sells and underwrites anextensive range of financial protection products and investment alternatives, includinglife insurance, annuities and debt protection products.Card ServicesCard Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is the largest issuer of general purpose credit cards in theUnited States, with approximately 94&nbsp;million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchantacquirer. CS offers a wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, includingcards issued on behalf of many well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels,universities, retailers and other financial institutions.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) serves more than 25,000 corporations, municipalities, financialinstitutions and not-for-profit entities, with annual revenues generally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to$2&nbsp;billion. A local market presence and a strong customerservice model, coupled with a focus on risk management, provide asolid infrastructure for CB to provide theFirm's complete product set &#150; lending, treasury services, investment banking andinvestment management &#150; for both corporate clients and their executives. CB's clientsbenefit greatly from the Firm's extensive branch network and often use the Firm exclusively to meettheir financial services needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a global leader in providing transaction, investment andinformation services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investorsworldwide. TSS is the largest cash management provider in the world and one of the top three globalcustodians. The Treasury Services business provides clients with a broad range ofcapabilities, including U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, trade, and short-termliquidity and working capital tools. The Investor Services business provides a wide range ofcapabilities, including custody, funds services, securities lending, and performance measurementand execution products. The Institutional Trust Services business provides trustee, depository andadministrative services for debt and equity issuers. Treasury Services partners with theCommercial Banking, Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management segments toserve clients firmwide. As a result, certain Treasury Services revenues are included in other segments'results.Asset & Wealth ManagementAsset & Wealth Management (&#147;AWM&#148;) provides investment management to retail and institutionalinvestors, financial intermediaries and high-net-worth families and individuals globally. Forretail investors, AWM provides investment management products and services, including a globalmutual fund franchise, retirement plan administration, and consultation and brokerage&nbsp; Table of Contentsservices. AWM delivers investment management to institutional investors across all assetclasses. The Private bank and Private client services businesses provide integrated wealthmanagement services to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, respectively.Merger with Bank One CorporationEffective July&nbsp;1, 2004, Bank One Corporation (&#147;Bank One&#148;) merged with and into JPMorgan Chase(the &#147;Merger&#148;), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Mergerdated January&nbsp;14, 2004. As a result ofthe Merger, each outstanding share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stockexchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase. The Merger was accounted for using thepurchase method of accounting. The purchase price to complete the Merger was $58.5&nbsp;billion. Keyobjectives of the Merger were to provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and greatergeographic diversification.Bank One's results of operations were included in the Firm's results beginning July&nbsp;1, 2004.Therefore, the results of operations for the 12&nbsp;months ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, reflect six monthsof operations of the combined Firm and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase; the results ofoperations for all other periods prior to 2004 reflect only the operations of heritage JPMorganChase.It is expected that cost savings of approximately $3.0&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) will be achieved by theend of 2007; approximately two-thirds of the savings are anticipated to be realized by the end of2005. Total 2004 Merger savings were approximately $400&nbsp;million. Merger costs to combine theoperations of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One are expected to range from approximately $4.0&nbsp;billion to$4.5&nbsp;billion (pre-tax). Of these costs, approximately $1.0&nbsp;billion, specifically related to BankOne, were accounted for as purchase accounting adjustments and were recorded as an increase togoodwill in 2004. Of the approximately $3.0&nbsp;billion to $3.5&nbsp;billion in remaining Merger-relatedcosts, $1.4&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) were incurred in 2004 and have been charged to income, $1.4&nbsp;billion(pre-tax) are expected to be incurred in 2005, and the remaining costs are expected to be incurredin 2006. These estimated Merger-related charges will result from actions taken with respect to bothJPMorgan Chase's and Bank One's operations, facilities and employees. The charges will be recordedbased on the nature and timing of these integration actions.As part of the Merger, certain accounting policies and practices were conformed, which resultedin $976&nbsp;million (pre-tax) of charges in 2004. The significant components of the conformitycharges were comprised of a $1.4&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) charge related to the decertification of theseller's interest in credit card securitizations, and the benefit of a $584&nbsp;million reduction inthe allowance for credit losses as a result of conforming the wholesale and consumer creditprovision methodologies.Other business eventsElectronic Financial ServicesOn January&nbsp;5, 2004, JPMorgan Chase acquired Electronic Financial Services (&#147;EFS&#148;), a leadingprovider of government-issued benefits payments and prepaid stored value cards used bystate and federal government agencies and private institutions. The acquisition furtherstrengthened JPMorgan Chase's position as a leading provider of wholesale payment services.CazenoveOn November&nbsp;5, 2004, JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (&#147;Cazenove&#148;) announced an agreementto combine Cazenove's investment banking business and JPMorgan Chase's United Kingdom-based investmentbanking business into a new entity to be jointly owned. The partnership will provide investment banking services in the UnitedKingdom and Ireland. The transaction closed on February&nbsp;28, 2005, and the new company is called JPMorgan Cazenove Holdings.HighbridgeOn December&nbsp;13, 2004, JPMorgan Chase formed a strategic partnership with and acquired amajority interest in Highbridge Capital Management (&#147;Highbridge&#148;), a New York-based multi-strategyhedge fund manager, with seven discrete strategy groups and more than $7&nbsp;billion of assetsunder management. Highbridge has offices in New York, London and Hong Kong. IncludingHighbridge, JPMorgan Chase now manages more than $40&nbsp;billion of absolute-return products(e.g., hedge funds, private equity and real estate investments).VasteraOn January&nbsp;7, 2005, JPMorgan Chase agreed to acquire Vastera, a provider of global trademanagement solutions, for approximately $129&nbsp;million. Vastera's business will be combined with theLogistics and Trade Services businesses of TSS's Treasury Services unit. The transaction isexpected to close in the first half of 2005. Vastera automates trade management processesassociated with the physical movement of goods internationally; the acquisition will enableTreasury Services to offer management of information and processes in support of physical goodsmovement, together with financial settlement.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Executive overviewThis overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected informationand may not contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. Thisoverview discusses the economic or industry-wide factors that affected JPMorgan Chase, the factorsthat drove business performance, and the factors that management monitors in setting policy. For amore complete understanding of trends, events, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capitalresources and critical accounting estimates, this entire Annual Report should be read carefully.Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseBusiness overviewThe Firm's results in 2004 were affected by many factors, but the most significant of thesewere the Merger, the litigation charge taken in the second quarter of the year and global economicgrowth.The Firm reported 2004 net income of $4.5&nbsp;billion, or $1.55 per share, compared with net income of$6.7&nbsp;billion, or $3.24 per share, for 2003. The return on common equity was 6%, compared with 16%in 2003. Results included $3.7&nbsp;billion in after-tax charges, or $1.31 per share, comprised of:Merger costs of $846&nbsp;million; charges to conform accounting policies as a result of the Merger of$605&nbsp;million; and a charge of $2.3&nbsp;billion to increase litigation reserves. Excluding thesecharges, operating earnings would have been $8.2&nbsp;billion, or $2.86 per share, and return on commonequity would have been 11%. Operating earnings represent business results without themerger-related costs and the significant litigation charges.During the course of the year, the Firm developed a comprehensive plan of Merger integration andbegan to execute on the plan. Significant milestones during the year included: branding decisionsfor all businesses; merger of the holding companies, lead banks and credit card banks; conversionof the Bank One credit card portfolio to a new processing platform; announcement of insourcing ofmajor technology operations; and consolidation and standardization of human resource policies andbenefit plans. As part of the Merger, the Firm announced that it had targeted reducing operatingexpenses by $3.0&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) by the end of 2007. In order to accomplish the cost reductions,the Firm announced that it expects to incur Merger costs of approximately $4.0&nbsp;billion to$4.5&nbsp;billion and reduce its workforce by approximately 12,000 over the same time period.In 2004, both the U.S. and global economies continued to strengthen overall, even thoughmomentum slowed during the second half of the year due to rising oil prices. Gross domestic productincreased by 3.9% globally and 4.4% in the U.S., both up from 2003. The U.S. economy experiencedrising short-term interest rates, driven by Federal Reserve Board (&#147;FRB&#148;) actions duringthe course of the year. The federal funds rate increased from 1.00% to 2.25% during the year andthe yield curve flattened, as long-term interest rates were relatively stable. Equity markets, bothdomestic and international, enjoyed strong results, with the S&P 500 up 9% and internationalindices increasing in similar fashion. Capital markets activity during 2004 was healthy, debtunderwriting was consistent with the strong levels experienced in 2003, and equity underwritingenjoyed strong and consistent activity during the year. The U.S. consumer sector showed continuedstrength buoyed by the overall economic strength, despite slowing mortgage origination andrefinance activity. Retail sales were up over the prior year, and bankruptcy filings were downsignificantly from 2003.On an operating basis, net income in each of the Firm's lines of business was affectedprimarily by the Merger. The discussion that follows highlights other factors which affectedoperating results in each business.Despite the relatively beneficial capital markets environment, results for the Investment Bank wereunder pressure during the year. This was primarily due to a decline in trading revenue related tolower fixed income trading, driven by weaker portfoliomanagement results, and areduction in net interest income, stemming primarily from lower loan balances. This was partially offset by increased investmentbanking fees, the result of continued strength in debt underwriting, and higher advisory fees. TheInvestment Bank benefited from a reduction in the allowance for credit losses, primarily due to theimproved credit quality of the loan portfolio, as evidenced by the significant drop innonperforming loans and, to a lesser extent, recoveries of previously charged-off loans. Expensesrose, primarily due to higher compensation expenses.Retail Financial Servicesbenefited from better spreads earned on deposits and growth in retained residential mortgageand home equity loan balances. Mortgage fees and related income was also up, reflecting highermortgage servicing revenue, partially offset by significantly lower prime mortgage productionincome related to the slower mortgage origination activity. The Provision for credit lossesbenefited from improved credit quality in nearly all portfolios and a reduction in the allowancefor credit losses related to the sale of a $4&nbsp;billion manufactured home loan portfolio. Highercompensation expenses were due to continued expansion of the branch office network, including 130new locations (106&nbsp;net additional branches) opened during 2004 for the combined Firm, and expansion of the sales force, partiallyoffset by ongoing efficiency improvements.Card Services revenue benefited from higher loan balances and customer charge volume, whichincreased net interest income and higher net interchange income, respectively. Expensesincreased due to higher marketing spending and higher volume-based processing expenses.Commercial Banking revenues benefited from strong deposit growth and higher investment bankingfees. These benefits were partially offset by lower service charges on deposits, which oftendecline when interest rates rise. Credit quality continued to improve, resulting in lower netcharge-offs and nonperforming loans.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTreasury & Securities Services revenues benefited from strong growth in assets under custody andaverage deposits, along with deposit spreads, which improved due to the relatively lowinterest rate environment for deposits. These benefits were offset by lower service charges ondeposits, which often decline when interest rates rise. Revenues and expenses also were affected byacquisitions, divestitures and growth in business volume. Expenses also increased due to softwareimpairment charges, and legal and technology-related expenses.Asset & Wealth Management results were positively affected by the strength of global equitymarkets, an improved product mix, better investment performance and net asset inflows. Resultsalso benefited from deposit and loan growth.The Corporate segment performance was negatively affected by a repositioning of theinvestment securities portfolio and tighter spreads. This was partially offset by improved PrivateEquity results due to an improved climate for investment sales.The Firm's balance sheet was likewise significantly affected by the Merger. Aside from theMerger, the Firm took a number of actions during the year to strengthen the balance sheet. Notably,the Treasury investment portfolio was repositioned to reduce exposure to rising interest rates;auto leasing was de-emphasized, and lease receivables were reduced by 16% to $8&nbsp;billion; the $4billion manufactured home loan portfolio was sold; the $2&nbsp;billion recreational vehicle portfoliowas sold subsequent to year-end; a significant portion of third-party private equity investmentshave been sold; and the Firm increased its litigation reserves. The Firm's capital base was alsosignificantly enhanced following the Merger. As of year-end, total stockholders' equity was$106&nbsp;billion, and the Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.7%. The capital position allowed the Firm tobegin repurchasing common stock during the second half of the year, with more than $700million, or 19.3&nbsp;million common shares, repurchased during the year.2005 business outlookJPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2005 should be viewed against the backdrop of the global economy,financial markets and the geopolitical environment, all of which are integrally linked together.While the Firm considers outcomes for, and has contingency plans to respond to, stressenvironments, its basic outlook for 2005 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied inthe forward rate curve for U.S. Treasuries, the continuation of the favorable U.S. andinternational equity markets and continued expansion of the global economy.The performance of the Firm's capital markets businesses is highly correlated to overall globaleconomic growth. The Investment Bank enters 2005 with a strong pipeline for advisory andunderwriting business, and it continues to focus on growing its client-driven trading business.Compared with 2004, the Investment Bank expects a reduction in credit portfolio revenues, as bothnet interest income on loans and gains from workouts are likely to decrease. Financial marketmovements and activity levels also affect Asset & Wealth Management and Treasury & SecuritiesServices. Asset & Wealth Management anticipates revenue growth, driven by net inflows to Assetsunder supervision and by the Highbridge acquisition, as well as deposit and loan growth. Treasury &Securities Services anticipates modest revenue growth, due to wider spreads on deposits, as well asincreased business volume and activity in the custody, trade, commercial card, American DepositaryReceipt and Collateralized Debt Obligation businesses. Commercial Banking anticipates that netrevenues will benefit from growth in treasury services and investment banking fees, offset bymargin compression on loans.The business outlook varies for the respective consumer businesses. Card Servicesanticipates modest growth in consumer spending and in card outstandings. For RFS, Home Financeearnings are likely to weaken given a market-driven decline in mortgage originations, neutralizingthe expected earnings increase in Consumer & Small Business Banking. The drop in revenue at HomeFinance should be mitigated by ongoing efforts to bring expenses in line with lowerexpected origination volumes. Growth is expected to continue in Consumer & Small Business Banking,with increases in core deposits and associated revenue partially offset by ongoing investments inthe branch distribution network. New branch openings should continue at a pace consistent with orslightly above those of 2004. At the heritage Chase branches, expanded hours and realignedcompensation plans that tie incentives to branch performance are expected to provide improvementsin productivity and incremental net revenue growth. Earnings in Auto & Education Finance areexpected to remain under pressure, given the current competitive operating environment. Acrossall RFS businesses, credit quality trends remain stable, with a slight increase in credit costslikely in 2005.The Corporate sector includes Private Equity, Treasury and the corporate support units. The revenueoutlook for the Private Equity business is directly related to the strength of equity marketconditions in 2005. If current market conditions persist, the Firm anticipates continuedrealization of private equity gains; the Firm is not anticipating investment securities gains fromthe Treasury portfolio in 2005.The Provision for credit losses in 2005 is anticipated to be higher than in 2004, drivenprimarily by a return to a more normal level of provisioning for credit losses in thewholesale businesses over time. The consumer Provision for credit losses in 2005 should reflectincreased balances, with generally stable credit quality. The Firm plans to implementhigher minimum-payment requirements in the Card Services business in the third quarterof 2005; it is anticipated that this will increase delinquency and net charge-off rates, but themagnitude of the impact is currently being assessed.The Firm's 2005 expenses should reflect the realization of $1.5&nbsp;billion in merger savings. Thesesavings are expected to be offset by a projected $1.1&nbsp;billion of incremental spending related tofirmwide technology infrastructure, distribution enhancement, and product improvement andexpansion in Retail Financial Services, the Investment Bank and Asset & Wealth Management. Inaddition, expenses will increase as a result of recent acquisitions, such as Highbridge andCazenove.Management will seek to continue to strengthen the Firm's balance sheet through rigorousfinancial and risk discipline. Any capital generated in excess of the Firm's capital targets, andbeyond that required to support anticipated modest growth in assets and the underlying risks of theFirm's businesses, including litigation risk, will create capital flexibility in 2005 withrespect to common stock repurchases and further investments in the Firm's businesses.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Consolidated results of operations&nbsp;The following section provides a comparative discussion of JPMorgan Chase's consolidatedresults of operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December&nbsp;31, 2004.Factors that are primarily related to a single business segment are discussed in more detail withinthat business segment than they are in this consolidated section. For a discussion of the Criticalaccounting estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidated results of operations, see pages77-79 of this Annual Report.Revenue2004 compared with 2003Total net revenues, at $43.1&nbsp;billion, rose by $9.7&nbsp;billion or 29%, primarily due to the Merger,which affected every category of Total net revenue. Additional factors contributing to therevenue growth were higher consumer demand for credit products and higher credit card chargevolume, as well as strong retail and wholesale deposit growth. Investment banking revenuesincreased as a result of growth in global market volumes and market share gains. Revenue alsobenefited from acquisitions and growth in assets under custody, under management and undersupervision, the result of global equity market appreciation and net asset inflows. Private equitygains were higher due to an improved climate for investment sales. The discussion that followshighlights factors other than the Merger that affected the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by significant gains in underwriting andadvisory activities as a result of increased global market volumes and market share gains. Tradingrevenue declined by 18%, primarily due to lower portfolio management results in fixed income andequities. For a further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue, which areprimarily recorded in the IB, see the IB segment results on pages30-32 of this Annual Report.Lending & deposit related fees were up from 2003 due to the Merger. The rise was partiallyoffset by lower service charges on deposits, as clients paid for services with deposits, versusfees, due to rising interest rates. Throughout 2004, deposit balances grew in response torising interest rates.The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions was also driven by the full-yearimpact of other acquisitions - such as EFS in January&nbsp;2004, Bank One's Corporate Trust business inNovember&nbsp;2003 and JPMorganRetirement Plan Services in June&nbsp;2003 - as well as the effect of global equity market appreciation,net asset inflows and a better product mix. In addition, a more active market for tradingactivities in 2004 resulted in higher brokerage commissions. For additional information on thesefees and commissions, see the segment discussions for AWM on pages 45-46, TSS on pages 43-44 andRFS on pages 33-38 of this Annual Report.Securities/private equity gains for 2004 rose from the prior year, primarily fueled by theimprovement in the Firm's private equity investment results. This was offset by lower securitiesgains on the Treasury investment portfolio as a result of lower volumes of securities sold, andlower gains realized on sales due to higher interest rates; additionally, RFS's Home Financebusiness reported losses in 2004 on available-for-sale (&#147;AFS&#148;) securities, as compared with gainsin 2003. For a further discussion of securities gains, see the RFS and Corporate segmentdiscussions on pages 33-38 and 47-48, respectively, of this Annual Report. For a further discussionof Private equity gains, which are primarily recorded in the Firm's Private Equity business, seethe Corporate segment discussion on pages 47-48 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income rose as a result of higher servicing revenue; this improvement waspartially offset by lower mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;) asset risk management resultsand prime mortgage production revenue, and lower gains from sales and securitizations of subprimeloans as a result of management's decision in 2004 to retain these loans. Mortgage fees and relatedincome excludes the impact of NII and securities gains related to home mortgage activities. For adiscussion of Mortgage fees and related income, which is primarily recorded in RFS's Home Financebusiness, see the Home Finance discussion on pages 34-36 of this Annual Report.Credit card income increased from 2003 as a result of higher customer charge volume, whichresulted in increased interchange income, and higher credit card servicing fees associated with theincrease of $19.4&nbsp;billion in average securitized loans. The increases were partially offset byhigher volume-driven payments to partners and rewards expense. For a further discussion of Creditcard income, see CS's segment results on pages 39-40 of this Annual Report.The increase in Other income from 2003 reflected gains on leveraged lease transactions and highernet results from corporate and bank-owned life insurance policies. These positive factors in 2004were partially offset by gains on sales of several nonstrategic businesses and real estateproperties in 2003.Net interest income rose from 2003 as growth in volumes of consumer loans and deposits, as well aswider spreads on deposits, contributed to higher net interest income. These were partially offsetby lower wholesale loan balances in the IB and tighter spreads on loans, investment securities andtrading assets stemming from the rise in interest rates. The Firm's total average interest-earningassets for 2004 were $744.1&nbsp;billion, up $154.2&nbsp;billion from 2003. Growth was also driven by higherlevels of consumer loans. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalentbasis, was 2.27% in 2004, an increase of 6 basis points from the prior year.2003 compared with 2002Total revenue for 2003 was $33.4&nbsp;billion, up 13% from 2002. All businesses benefitedfrom improved economic conditions in 2003. In particular, the low-interest rate environmentdrove robust fixed income markets and an unprecedented mortgage refinancing boom, which drove thegrowth in revenue.&nbsp; Table of ContentsInvestment banking fees increased by $127&nbsp;million, primarily due to growth in IB'sequity underwriting, which was up 49%, reflecting increases in market share andunderwriting volumes. This increase was partially offset by lower advisory fees reflectingdepressed levels of M&A activity. Trading revenue was up $1.8&nbsp;billion, or 65%, primarily due tostrong client and portfolio management revenue growth in fixed income and equity markets as aresult of the low-interest rate environment, improvement in equity markets and volatilityin credit markets. For a further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue, whichare primarily recorded in the Investment Bank, see the IB segment results on pages 30-32 of thisAnnual Report.Lending & deposit related fees rose, the result of higher fees on standby letters ofcredit, due to growth in transaction volume, and higher service charges on deposits. These chargeswere driven by an increase in the payment of services with fees, versus deposits, due to lowerinterest rates.The increase in Asset management, administration and commissions was attributable to a morefavorable environment for debt and equity activities, resulting in higher fees for the custody,institutional trust, brokerage and other processing-related businesses. Fees for investmentmanagement activities also increased as a result of acquisitions in AWM, but these increases werepartially offset by institutional net fund outflows, which resulted in loweraverage assets under management.Securities/private equity gains increased to $1.5&nbsp;billion from $817&nbsp;million in 2002, reflectingsignificant improvement in private equity gains. These gains were partially offset by lower gainsrealized from the sale of securities in Treasury and of AFS securities in RFS's Home Financebusiness, driven by increasing interest rates beginning in the third quarter of 2003. For a furtherdiscussion of private equity gains (losses), see the Corporate segment discussion on pages 47-48 ofthis Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income declined by 7% in 2003, primarily due to a decline in revenueassociated with risk management of the MSR asset, mortgage pipeline and mortgage warehouse; thesewere partially offset by higher fees from origination and sales activity and other fees derivedfrom volume and market-share growth. For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related income, which isprimarily recorded in RFS's Home Finance business, see the Home Finance discussion on pages34-36 of this Annual Report.Credit card income rose as a result of higher credit card servicing fees associated with the $6.7billion growth in average securitized credit card receivables. For a further discussion of Creditcard income, see CS's segment results on pages 39-40 of this Annual Report.Other income rose, primarily from $200&nbsp;million in gains on sales of securities acquired in loanworkouts (compared with $26&nbsp;million in 2002), as well as gains on the sale of several nonstrategicbusinesses and real estate properties; these were partly offset by lower net results from corporateand bank-owned life insurance policies. In addition, 2002 included $73&nbsp;million of write-downs forseveral Latin American investments.The increase in Net interest income reflected the positive impact of lower interest rates onconsumer loan originations, such as mortgages and automobile loans and leases and related fundingcosts. Net interest income was partially reduced by a lower volume of wholesale loans and lowerspreads on investment securities. The Firm's total average interest-earning assets in 2003 were$590&nbsp;billion, up 6% from the prior year. The net interest yield on these assets, on a fullytaxable-equivalent basis, was 2.21%, the same as in the prior year.Provision for credit losses2004 compared with 2003The Provision for credit losses of $2.5&nbsp;billion was up $1.0&nbsp;billion, or 65%, compared with theprior year. The impact of the Merger, and of accounting policy conformity charges of $858&nbsp;million,were partially offset by releases in the allowance for credit losses related to the wholesale loanportfolio, primarily due to improved credit quality in the IB. Wholesale nonperforming loansdecreased by 21% even after the inclusion of Bank One's loan portfolio. RFS's Provision for creditlosses benefited from a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the sale of the $4billion manufactured home loan portfolio and continued positive credit quality trends in the homeand auto finance businesses. The provision related to the credit card portfolio grew by$919&nbsp;million, principally due to the Merger. For further information about the Provision for creditlosses and the Firm's management of credit risk, see the Credit risk management discussionon pages 57-69 of this Annual Report.2003 compared with 2002The 2003 Provision for credit losses was $2.8&nbsp;billion lower than in 2002, primarily reflectingcontinued improvement in the quality of the wholesale loan portfolio and a higher volume of creditcard securitizations.Noninterest expense2004 compared with 2003Noninterest expense was $34.4&nbsp;billion in 2004, up $12.5&nbsp;billion, or 57%, primarily due to theMerger. Excluding $1.4&nbsp;billion of Merger costs, and litigation reserve charges, Noninterestexpenses would have been $29.3&nbsp;billion, up 35%. In addition to the Merger and litigation charges,expenses increased due to reinvestment in the lines of business, partially offset by merger-relatedsavings throughout the Firm. Each category of Noninterest expense was affected by the Merger. Thediscussion that follows highlights other factors which affected the 2004 versus 2003comparison.Compensation expense was up from 2003, primarily due to strategic investments in the IB andcontinuing expansion in RFS. These factors were partially offset by ongoing efficiency improvementsand merger-related savings throughout the Firm, and a reduction in pension costs. The decline inpension costs was mainly attributable to the increase in the expected return on plan assets from adiscretionary $1.1&nbsp;billion contribution to the Firm's pension&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.plan in April&nbsp;2004, partially offset by changes in actuarial assumptions for 2004 comparedwith 2003. For a detailed discussion of pension and other postretirement benefit costs, see Note 6on pages 92-95 of this Annual Report.The increase in Occupancy expense was partly offset by lower charges for excess real estate,which were $103&nbsp;million in 2004, compared with $270&nbsp;million in 2003.Technology and communications expense was higher than in the prior year as a result of higher costsassociated with greater use of outside vendors, primarily IBM, to support the global infrastructurerequirements of the Firm. After the Merger, JPMorgan Chase decided to terminate its outsourcingagreement with IBM, effective December&nbsp;31, 2004. For a further discussion regarding the IBMoutsourcing agreement, see the Corporate segment discussion on page 47 of this Annual Report.Professional & outside services rose due to higher legal costs associated with pending litigationmatters, as well as outside services stemming from recent acquisitions, primarily EFS, and growthin business at TSS and CS.Marketing expense rose as CS initiated a more robust marketing campaign during 2004.Other expense was up due to software impairment write-offs of $224&nbsp;million, primarily in TSS andCorporate, compared with $60&nbsp;million in 2003; higher accruals for non-Enron-related litigationcases; and the impact of growth in business volume. These were partly offset by a $57&nbsp;millionsettlement related to the Enron surety bond litigation.For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs, refer to Note 15 and Note8 on pages 109-111 and 98, respectively.In June of 2004, JPMorgan Chase recorded a $3.7&nbsp;billion (pre-tax) addition to the Litigationreserve. While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, the addition reflectedmanagement's assessment of the appropriate reserve level in light of all then-knowninformation. By comparison, 2003 included a charge of $100&nbsp;million for Enron-related litigation.2003 compared with 2002Total Noninterest expense was $21.8&nbsp;billion, down 4% from the prior year. In 2002, the Firmrecorded $1.3&nbsp;billion of charges, principally for Enron-related litigation, and $1.2&nbsp;billion formerger and restructuring costs related to programs announced prior to January&nbsp;1, 2002. Excludingthese costs, expenses rose by 8% in 2003, reflecting higher performance-related incentives,increased costs related to stock-based compensation and pension and other postretirement expenses;and higher occupancy expenses. The Firm began expensing stock options in 2003.The increase in Compensation expense principally reflected higher performance-related incentives,as well as higher pension and other postretirement benefit costs, primarily as a result of changesin actuarial assumptions. The increase pertaining to incentives included $266&nbsp;million as a resultof adopting SFAS 123, and $120&nbsp;million from the reversal in 2002 of previously accrued expenses forcertain forfeitable key employee stock awards. Total compensation expenses declined as a result ofthe transfer, beginning April&nbsp;1, 2003, of 2,800 employees to IBM in connection with theaforementioned technology outsourcing agreement.The increase in Occupancy expense reflected costs of additional leased space in midtown Manhattanand in the South and Southwest regions of the United States, higher real estate taxes in New YorkCity and the cost of enhancedsafety measures. Also contributing to the increase were charges for unoccupied excess real estateof $270&nbsp;million; this compared with $120&nbsp;million in 2002.Technology and communications expense increased primarily due to a shift in expenses: costs thatwere previously associated with Compensation and Other expenses shifted, upon the commencement ofthe IBM outsourcing agreement, to Technology and communications expense. Also contributing to theincrease were higher costs related to software amortization. For a further discussion of the IBMoutsourcing agreement, see Corporate on page 47 of this Annual Report.Professional & outside services rose, reflecting greater utilization of third-party vendors forprocessing activities and higher legal costs associated with various litigation andbusiness-related matters.Higher Marketing expense was driven by more robust campaigns for the Home Finance business.The decrease in Other expense was due partly to expense management initiatives, such as reducedallowances to expatriates and recruitment costs.There were no Merger costs in 2003. In 2002, merger and restructuring costs of $1.2&nbsp;billion werefor programs announced prior to January&nbsp;1, 2002.The Firm added $100&nbsp;million to the Enron-related litigation reserve in 2003 to supplement a $1.3billion reserve initially recorded in 2002. The 2002 reserve was established to cover Enron-relatedmatters, as well as certain other material litigation, proceedings and investigations in which theFirm is involved.Income tax expenseThe Firm's Income before income tax expense, Income tax expense and effective tax rate were asfollows for each of the periods indicated:2004 compared with 2003The reduction in the effective tax rate for 2004, as compared with 2003, was the result of variousfactors, including lower reported pre-tax income, a higher level of business tax credits, andchanges in the proportion of income subject to federal, state and local taxes, partially offset bypurchase accounting adjustments related to leveraged lease transactions. The Merger costs andaccounting policy conformity adjustments recorded in 2004, and the Litigation reserve chargerecorded in the second quarter of 2004, reflected a tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate,contributing to the reduction in the effective tax rate compared with 2003.2003 compared with 2002The effective tax rate decline was principally attributable to changes in the proportion of incomesubject to state and local taxes.&nbsp; Table of ContentsExplanation and reconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAP financial measures&nbsp;The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting principlesgenerally accepted in the United States of America (&#147;U.S. GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appearon pages 84-87 of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred to as &#147;reported basis,&#148;provides the reader with an understanding of the Firm's results that can be consistently trackedfrom year to year and enables a comparison of the Firm's performance with other companies' U.S.GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on a reported basis, management reviewsline-of-business results on an &#147;operating basis,&#148; which is a non-GAAP financial measure.The definition of operating basis starts with the reported U.S. GAAP results. In the case of theIB, operating basis noninterest revenue includes, in Trading revenue, net interest income relatedto trading activities. Trading activities generate revenues, which are recorded for U.S. GAAPpurposes in two line items on the income statement: Trading revenue, which includes themark-to-market gains or losses on trading positions, and Net interest income, which includes theinterest income or expense related to those positions. Combining both the trading revenue andrelated net interest income enables management to evaluate the IB's trading activities, byconsidering all revenue related to these activities, and facilitates operating comparisons to othercompetitors. The following table reclassifies the Firm's trading-related Net interest income toTrading revenue.Trading-related Net interest income reclassificationIn addition, segment resultsreflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis. The tax-equivalentgross-up for each business segment is based upon the level, type andtax jurisdiction of the earnings and assets within each businesssegment. Operating revenue for the Investment Bankincludes tax-equivalent adjustments for income tax credits primarilyrelated to affordable housing investments as well astax-exempt income from municipal bond investments. Information priorto the Merger has not been restated to conform with this newpresentation. The amount of the tax-equivalent gross-up for eachbusiness segment is eliminated within the Corporate segment. For afurther discussion of trading-related revenue and tax-equivalentadjustments made to operating revenue, see the IB on pages 30-32 ofthis Annual Report.In the case of Card Services, operating or managed basis excludes the impact of credit cardsecuritizations on revenue, the Provision for credit losses, net charge-offs and loan receivables.Through securitization the Firm transforms a portion of its credit card receivables intosecurities, which are sold to investors. The credit card receivables are removed from theconsolidated balance sheet through the transfer of principal credit card receivables to a trust,and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to specific cash flowsgenerated from the credit card receivables. The Firm retains the remaining undivided interests asseller's interests, which are recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheet. A gain or losson the sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other income. Securitizationalso affects the Firm's consolidated income statement by reclassifying as credit card income,interest income, certain fee revenue, and recoveries in excess of interest paid to the investors,gross credit losses and other trust expenses related to the securitized receivables. For areconciliation of reported to managed basis of Card Services results,see page 40 of this AnnualReport. For information regarding loans and residual interests sold and securitized, see Note 13 onpages 103-106 of this Annual Report. JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managed receivables&#148; toevaluate the credit performance and overall financial performance of the underlying credit cardloans, both sold and not sold; as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card forongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the loan receivables soldunder SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed loan receivables,JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order todisclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit cardportfolio. In addition, Card Services operations are funded, operating results are evaluated anddecisions about allocating resources such as employees and capital are based on managed financialinformation.Finally, operating basis excludes Merger costs, the Litigation reserve charge and accounting policyconformity adjustments related to the Merger, as management believes these items are not part ofthe Firm's normal daily business operations (and, therefore, are not indicative of trends) and donot provide meaningful comparisons with other periods.Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level. Management believes thesenon-GAAP financial measures provide information to investors in understanding the underlyingoperational performance and trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparisonof the business segment with the performance of competitors.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported GAAP results to operating results:(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; Table of Contents(Table continued from previous page)Special ItemsThe reconciliation of the Firm's reported results to operating results in the accompanying tablesets forth the impact of several special items incurred by the Firm in 2002 and 2004. These specialitems are excluded from Operating earnings, as management believes these items are not part of theFirm's normal daily business operations and, therefore, are not indicative of trends and do notprovide meaningful comparisons with other periods. These items include Merger costs,significant litigation charges, charges to conform accounting policies and other items,each of which is described below:Formula Definitions for Non-GAAP MetricsThe table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following GAAP and non-GAAPmeasures:*&nbsp;Represents earnings applicable to common stock&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Business segment results&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportablebusiness segments: the Investment Bank, Retail Financial Services, Card Services, CommercialBanking, Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management, as well as a Corporatesegment.The segments are based on the products and services provided, or the type of customer served, andthey reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management.Results of these lines of business are presented on an operating basis.In connection with the Merger, business segment reporting was realigned to reflect thenew business structure of the combined Firm. Treasury was transferred from the IB intoCorporate. The segment formerly known as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of Chase HomeFinance, Chase Cardmember Services, Chase Auto Finance, Chase Regional Banking and Chase MiddleMarket; as a result of the Merger, this segment is now called Retail Financial Services and iscomprised of Home Finance, Auto & Education Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking andInsurance. Chase Middle Market moved into Commercial Banking, and Chase Cardmember Servicesis now its own segment called Card Services. TSS remains unchanged. Investment Management & PrivateBanking has been renamed Asset &Wealth Management. JPMorgan Partners, which formerly was a stand-alone business segment, was movedinto Corporate. Corporate is currently comprised of Private Equity (JPMorgan Partnersand ONE Equity Partners), Treasury, as well as corporate support areas, which include Central Technology andOperations, Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, General Services, HumanResources, Marketing & Communications, Office of the GeneralCounsel, Real Estate and BusinessServices, Risk Management and Strategy and Development.Segment results for periods prior to July&nbsp;1, 2004, reflect heritage JPMorgan Chase-only results andhave been restated to reflect the current business segment organization and reportingclassifications.Segment results &#151; Operating basis (a)(b)(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; Table of ContentsDescription of businesssegment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were essentiallya stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocatesincome and expense using market-based methodologies. At the time of the Merger, several of theallocation methodologies were revised, as noted below. The changes became effective July&nbsp;1, 2004.As prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new methodologies, they are not comparableto the presentation of periods beginning with the third quarter of 2004. Further, the Firm intendsto continue to assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting reclassifications used forsegment reporting, and it is anticipated that further refinements may be implemented infuture periods.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to share revenues from those transactions. These revenuesharing agreements were revised on the Merger date to provide consistency across the linesof businesses.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (&#147;FTP&#148;) is used to allocate interest income and interest expense to eachline of business and also serves to transfer interest rate risk to Corporate. Whilebusiness segments may periodically retain interest rate exposures related to customer pricingor other business-specific risks, the balance of the Firm's overall interest rate risk exposure isincluded and managed in Corporate. In the third quarter of 2004, FTP was revised to conform thepolicies of the combined firms.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the Firm, the costs ofthose support units are allocated to the business segments. Those expenses are allocated based ontheir actual cost, or the lower of actual cost or market cost, as well as upon usage of theservices provided. Effectivewith the third quarter of 2004, the cost allocation methodologies of the heritage firms werealigned to provide consistency across the business segments. In addition, expenses related tocertain corporate functions, technology and operations ceased to be allocated to the businesssegments and are retained in Corporate. These retained expenses include parent company costs thatwould not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses; adjustments to align certaincorporate staff, technology and operations allocations with market prices; and other one-time itemsnot aligned with the business segments.Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-alone peer comparisons,economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. The amount of capital assigned to eachbusiness is referred to as equity. Effective with the third quarter of 2004, new methodologies wereimplemented to calculate the amount of capital allocated to each segment. As part of the newmethodology, goodwill, as well as the associated capital, is allocated solely to Corporate.Although U.S. GAAP requires the allocation of goodwill to the business segments for impairmenttesting (see Note 15 on page 109 of this Annual Report), the Firm has elected not to includegoodwill or the related capital in each of the business segments for management reporting purposes.See the Capital management section on page 50 of this Annual Report for a discussion of theequity framework.Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients thesegments share. At the time of the Merger, the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based onpre-tax earnings, net of the cost of capital related to those exposures. Prior to the Merger, thecredit reimbursement was based on pre-tax earnings, plus the allocated capital associated with theshared clients.Tax-equivalent adjustmentsSegment results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for segmentreporting purposes. Refer to page 25 of this Annual Report foradditional details.Segment results &#151; Operating basis(a)(b)(Table continued from previous page)&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Investment Bank&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase is one of the world's leading investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth of itsclient relationships and product capabilities. The Investment Bank has extensive relationships withcorporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors worldwide. The Firmprovides a full range of investment banking products and services, including advising on corporatestrategy and structure, capital raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management,and market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments in all major capital markets. TheInvestment Bank also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietary investing and tradingactivities.As a result of the Merger, the Treasury business has been transferred to the Corporate sector, andprior periods have been restated to reflect the reorganization.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003In 2004, Operating earnings of $2.9&nbsp;billion were up 5% from the prior year. Increases in Investmentbanking fees, a reduction in the Provision for credit losses and the impact of the Merger werepartially offset by decreases in trading revenues and net interest income. Return on equity was17%.Total net revenue of $12.6&nbsp;billion was relatively flat from the prior year, primarily due to lowerFixed income markets revenues and total Credit portfolio revenues, offset by increases inInvestment banking fees and the impact of the Merger. The decline in revenue from Fixed incomemarkets was driven by weaker portfolio management trading results, mainly in the interest ratemarkets business. Total credit portfolio revenues were down due to lower net interest income andlending fees, primarily driven by lower loan balances; these were partially offset by highertrading revenue due to more severe credit spread tightening in 2003 relative to 2004. Investmentbanking fees increased by 24% over the prior year, driven by significant gains in advisory and debtunderwriting. The advisory gains were a result of increased global market volumes and market share,while the higher underwriting fees were due to stronger client activity.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $640&nbsp;million, compared with a benefit of $181million in 2003. The improvement in the provision was the result of a $633&nbsp;million decline in netcharge-offs, partially offset by lower reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004relative to 2003. For additional information, see Credit riskmanagement on pages 57-69 of thisAnnual Report.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, Noninterest expense was up 5% from the prior year. Theincrease from 2003 was driven by higher Compensation expense, including strategic investments andthe impact of the Merger.2003 compared with 2002Operating earnings of $2.8&nbsp;billion were up significantly over 2002. The increase in earnings wasdriven by a significant decline in the Provision for credit losses, coupled with strong growth infixed income and equity markets revenues.Total net revenue was $12.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $2.0&nbsp;billion from the prior year. The lowinterest rate environment, improvement in equity markets and volatility in credit markets producedincreased client and portfolio management revenue in fixed income and equities. Market share gainsin equity underwriting contributed to the increase in Investment banking fees over 2002.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $181&nbsp;million in 2003, compared with a cost of $2.4billion in 2002, reflecting improvement in the overall credit quality of the wholesale portfolioand the restructuring of several nonperforming wholesale loans.Noninterest expense increased by 6% from 2002, reflecting higher incentives related to improvedfinancial performance and the impact of expensing stock options. Noncompensation expenses were up10% from the prior year due to increases in technology and occupancy costs.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metrics NA &#150; Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.According to Thomson Financial, in 2004, the Firm improved its ranking in U.S. announced M&A from#8 to #1, and Global announced M&A from #4 to #2, while increasing its market share significantly.The Firm's U.S. initial public offerings ranking improved from #16 to #4, with the Firm moving to#6 from #4 in the U.S. Equity & Equity-related category. The Firm maintained its #1 ranking in U.S.syndicated loans, with a 32% market share, and its #3 position in Global Debt, Equity andEquity-related.Market shares and rankings(a)&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Composition of revenue&nbsp;IB's revenues are comprised of the following:Investment banking fees includes advisory, equity underwriting, bond underwriting and loansyndication fees.Fixed income markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-makingand proprietary risk-taking across global fixed income markets, including government and corporatedebt, foreign exchange, interest rate and commodities markets.Equities markets includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-makingand proprietary risk-taking across global equity products, including cash instruments, derivativesand convertibles.Credit portfolio revenue includes Net interest income, fees and loan sale activity for IB's creditportfolio. Credit portfolio revenue also includes gains or losses on securities received as part ofa loan restructuring, and changes in the credit valuation adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;), which is thecomponent of the fair value of a derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.See page 63 of the Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for a further discussion ofthe CVA. Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to theFirm's lending and derivative activities. See pages 64-65 of the Credit risk management section ofthis Annual Report for a further discussion on credit derivatives.&nbsp; Table of ContentsRetail Financial Services&nbsp;RFS includes Home Finance, Consumer & Small Business Banking, Auto & Education Finance andInsurance. Through this group of businesses, the Firm provides consumers and small businesses witha broad range of financial products and services including deposits, investments, loans andinsurance. Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is one ofthe largest originators and servicers of home mortgages. Consumer & Small Business Banking offersone of the largest branch networks in the United States, covering 17 states with 2,508 branches and6,650 automated teller machines (&#147;ATMs&#148;). Auto & Education Finance is the largest bank originatorof automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college students. Through its Insuranceoperations, the Firm sells and underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products andinvestment alternatives, including life insurance, annuities and debt protection products.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $2.2&nbsp;billion, up from $1.5&nbsp;billion a year ago. The increase was largely dueto the Merger. Excluding the benefit of the Merger, earnings declined as lower MSR risk managementresults and reduced prime mortgage production revenue offset the benefits of growth in loanbalances, wider spreads on deposit products and improvement in credit costs.Total net revenue increased to $10.8&nbsp;billion, up 45% from the prior year. Net interest incomeincreased by 48% to $7.7&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger, growth in retained loan balances andwider spreads on deposit products. Noninterest revenue increased to $3.1&nbsp;billion, up 39%, due tothe Merger and higher mortgage servicing income. Both components of total revenue included declinesassociated with risk managing the MSR asset and lower prime mortgage originations.The Provision for credit losses was down 14% to $449&nbsp;million, despite the influence of the Merger.The effect of the Merger was offset by a reduction in the allowance for loan losses, resulting fromthe sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio, and continued positive credit quality trends inthe consumer lending businesses.Noninterest expense totaled $6.8&nbsp;billion, up 53% from the prior year, primarily due to the Mergerand continued investments to expand the branch network. Partially offsetting the increase weremerger-related expense savings in all businesses.2003 compared with 2002Total net revenue was $7.4&nbsp;billion in 2003, an increase of 17% over 2002. Net interest incomeincreased by 37% to $5.2&nbsp;billion, reflecting the positive impact of the low interest rateenvironment on consumer loan originations, particularly in Home Finance, and on spreads earned onretained loans.The Provision for credit losses of $521&nbsp;million increased by 56% compared with the prior year dueto continued growth in the retained loan portfolios. Credit quality remained stable in 2003, ascharge-offs decreased slightly, to $381&nbsp;million.Noninterest expense rose 20% to $4.5&nbsp;billion. The increase reflected higher business volumes andcompensation costs.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Selected metricsNA &#150; Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.Home FinanceHome Finance is comprised of two key business segments: Prime Production & Servicing and ConsumerReal Estate Lending. The Prime Production & Servicing segment includes the operating resultsassociated with the origination, sale and servicing of prime mortgages. Consumer Real EstateLending reflects the operating results of consumer loans that aresecured by real estate, retained bythe Firm and held in the portfolio. This portfolio includes prime and subprime first mortgages, homeequity lines and loans, and manufactured home loans. The Firm stopped originating manufactured homeloans early in 2004 and sold substantially all of its remaining portfolio at the end of the year.Selected income statement data by business2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings in the Prime Production & Servicing segment dropped to $240&nbsp;million from $918million in the prior year. Results reflected a decrease in prime mortgage production revenue, to$728&nbsp;million from $1.3&nbsp;billion, due to a decline in mortgage originations. Operating earnings werealso impacted by a drop in MSR risk management revenue, to $113&nbsp;million from $784&nbsp;million in theprior year. Results in 2004 included realized losses of $89&nbsp;million on the sale of AFS securitiesassociated with risk management of the MSR asset, compared with securities gains of $359&nbsp;million inthe prior year. Noninterest expense was relatively flat at $1.1&nbsp;billion.&nbsp; Table of ContentsOperating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment more than doubled to $881&nbsp;millionfrom $414&nbsp;million in the prior year. The increase was largely due to the addition of the Bank Onehome equity lending business but also reflected growth in retained loan balances and a $95&nbsp;millionnet benefit associated with the sale of the $4&nbsp;billion manufactured home loan portfolio; partiallyoffsetting these increases were lower subprime mortgage securitization gains. These factorscontributed to total net revenue rising 61% to $2.4&nbsp;billion. The provision for credit losses, at$74&nbsp;million, decreased by 69% from a year ago. This was the result of an $87&nbsp;million reduction inthe allowance for loan losses associated with the manufactured home loan portfolio sale, improvedcredit quality and lower delinquencies, partially offset by the Merger. Noninterest expense totaled$922&nbsp;million, up 52% from the year-ago period, largely due to the Merger.2003 compared with 2002Home Finance achieved record financial performance in 2003, as operating earnings of $1.3&nbsp;billionincreased by 48% from 2002.Total net revenue of $4.0&nbsp;billion increased by 39% over 2002, given record production revenue,improved margins and higher home equity revenue.The provision for credit losses of $240&nbsp;million for 2003 increased by 26% over 2002, primarily dueto higher retained loan balances. Credit quality continued to be strong relative to 2002, asevidenced by a lower net charge-off ratio and reduced delinquencies.Noninterest expense of $1.7&nbsp;billion increased by 29% from 2002, primarily a result of growth inorigination volume. The increase in expenses was also a result of higher performance-relatedincentives and strategic investments made to further expand certain distribution channels. Thesewere partially offset by production-related expense reduction efforts initiated in the fourthquarter of 2003.Selected metricsHome Finance's origination channels are comprised of the following:Retail - A mortgage banker employed by the Firm directly contacts borrowers who are buying orrefinancing a home through a branch office, through the Internet or by phone. Borrowers arefrequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers, home builders or other thirdparties.Wholesale - A third-party mortgage broker refers loans to a mortgage banker at the Firm. Brokersare independent loan originators that specialize in finding and counseling borrowers but do notprovide funding for loans.Correspondent - Banks, thrifts, other mortgage banks and other financial institutions sell closedloans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (&#147;CNT&#148;) - Mid- to large-sizedmortgage lenders, banks andbank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to the Firm on an as-originated basis. Thesetransactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growthopportunities in the servicing portfolio in stable and rising-rate periods.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The table below reconciles management's disclosure of Home Finance's revenue into the reported U.S.GAAP line items shown on the Consolidated statement of income and in the related Notes toConsolidated financial statements:The following table details the MSR risk management results in the Home Finance business:MSR risk management resultsHome Finance uses a combination of derivatives, AFS securities and trading securities to managechanges in the fair value of the MSR asset. These risk management activities are intended toprotect the economic value of the MSR asset by providing offsetting changes in the fair value ofrelated risk management instruments. The type and amount of hedging instruments used in this riskmanagement activity change over time as market conditions and approach dictate.During 2004, negative MSR valuation adjustments of $248&nbsp;million were more than offset by $361million of aggregate risk management gains, including net interest earned on AFS securities. In2003, negative MSR valuation adjustments of $253&nbsp;million were more than offset by $1.0&nbsp;billion ofaggregate risk management gains, including net interest earned on AFS securities. Unrealizedgains/(losses) on AFS securities were $(3) million, $(144) million and $377&nbsp;million at December&nbsp;31,2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. For a further discussion of MSRs, see Critical accountingestimates on page 79 and Note 15 on pages 109-111 of this Annual Report.Consumer & Small Business BankingConsumer & Small Business Banking offers a full array of financial services through a branchnetwork spanning 17 states as well as through the Internet. Product offerings include checking andsavings accounts, mutual funds and annuities, credit cards, mortgages and home equity loans, andloans for small business customers (generally with annual sales less than $10&nbsp;million). Thissegment also includes community development loans.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings totaled $760&nbsp;million, up from a loss of $4&nbsp;million in the prior-year period. Theincrease was largely due to the Merger but also reflected wider spreads on deposits and lowerexpenses. These benefits were partially offset by a higher Provision for credit losses.Total net revenue was $5.4&nbsp;billion, compared with $2.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year. While theincrease is primarily attributable to the Merger, total net revenue also benefited from widerspreads on deposits.The Provision for credit losses increased to $165&nbsp;million from $76&nbsp;million in the prior year. Theincrease was in part due to the Merger but also reflected an increase in the Allowance for creditlosses to cover high-risk portfolio segments.The increase in noninterest expense to $4.0&nbsp;billion was largely attributable to the Merger.Incremental expense from investments in the branch distribution network was also a contributingfactor.2003 compared with 2002Total net revenue of $2.4&nbsp;billion decreased by 9% compared with 2002. Net interest incomedeclined by 10% to $1.6&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the low-interest rate environment. Noninterestrevenue decreased by 5% to $828&nbsp;million given lower deposit fee income, decreased debit card feesand one-time gains in 2002.Noninterest expense of $2.4&nbsp;billion increased by 15% from 2002. The increase was largely due toinvestments in technology within the branch network and higher compensation expenses related toincreased staff levels.The Provision for credit losses of $76&nbsp;million increased by $107&nbsp;million compared with 2002. Thisreflected a reduction in the allowance for loan losses in 2002.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected metricsNA &#150; Data is not available on a comparable basis.Auto & Education FinanceAuto & Education Finance provides automobile loans and leases to consumers and loans to commercialclients, primarily through a national network of automotive dealers. The segment also offers loansto students via colleges and universities across the United States.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings totaled $270&nbsp;million, up 31% from the prior year. While the increase wasreflective of the Merger, performance for the year was moderated by narrower spreads and reducedorigination volumes arising from a competitive operating environment.Total net revenue increased by 36% to $1.1&nbsp;billion from the prior year. This increase reflected theMerger but included a decline in net interest income, given the competitive operating environmentin 2004 and incremental charges associated with the Firm's lease residual exposure.The Provision for credit losses totaled $210&nbsp;million, up 2% from the prior year. The increase wasdue to the Merger but was largely offset by a lower provision for credit losses, reflectingfavorable credit trends.Noninterest expense increased by 68% to $490&nbsp;million, largely due to the Merger.The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Consumer & SmallBusiness Banking.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.2003 compared with 2002In 2003, operating earnings were $206&nbsp;million, 24% higher than in 2002. Total net revenue grew by23% to $842&nbsp;million. Net interest income grew by 33% in comparison to 2002, driven by higheraverage loans and leases outstanding and wider spreads.The Provision for credit losses increased by 18% to $205&nbsp;million, primarily reflecting a 32%increase in average loan and lease receivables. Credit quality continued to be strong relative to2002, as evidenced by a lower net charge-off ratio and a reduced delinquency rate.Noninterest expense of $291&nbsp;million increased by 18% compared with 2002. The increase in expenseswas driven by higher origination volume and higher performance-based incentives.Selected metricsInsuranceInsurance is a provider of financial protection products and services, including life insurance,annuities and debt protection. Products and services are distributed through both internal lines ofbusiness and external markets.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Insurance operating earnings totaled $48&nbsp;million on total net revenue of $393&nbsp;million in 2004. Theincreases in total net revenue and noninterest expense over the prior year were almost entirely dueto the Merger.2003 compared with 2002Operating earnings in 2003 reflected a 19% increase in Total net revenue, while expenses wereessentially flat.Selected metricsNA &#151; Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Insurance.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCard Services&nbsp;Card Services is the largest issuer of general purpose credit cards in the United States, withapproximately 94&nbsp;million cards in circulation, and is the largest merchant acquirer. CS offers awide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers, including cards issued on behalfof many well-known partners, such as major airlines, hotels, universities, retailers and otherfinancial institutions.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managed receivables&#148; to evaluate the credit performance of theunderlying credit card loans, both sold and not sold: as the same borrower is continuing to use thecredit card for ongoing charges, a borrower's credit performance will affect both the receivablessold under SFAS 140 and those not sold. Thus, in its disclosures regarding managed receivables,JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order todisclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit cardportfolio. Operating results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue, theprovision for credit losses, net charge-offs and receivables. Securitization does not changereported net income versus operating earnings; however, it does affect the classification of itemson the Consolidated statements of income.Selected income statementdata &#150; managed basis2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings of $1.3&nbsp;billion increased by $591&nbsp;million compared with the prior year,primarily due to the Merger. In addition, earnings benefited from higher loan balances and chargevolume, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses and higher expenses.Total net revenue of $10.7&nbsp;billion increased by $4.6&nbsp;billion. Net interest income of $8.4&nbsp;billionincreased by $3.3&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger and higher loan balances. Noninterestrevenue of $2.4&nbsp;billion increased by $1.3&nbsp;billion, primarily due to the Merger and higher chargevolume, which generated increased interchange income. This was partially offset by highervolume-driven payments to partners, reflecting the sharing of income and increased rewards expense.The Provision for credit losses of $4.9&nbsp;billion increased by $1.9&nbsp;billion,primarily due to theMerger and growth in credit card receivables. Credit ratios remained strong,benefiting from reduced contractual and bankruptcy charge-offs. The net charge-off ratio was 5.27%.The 30-day delinquency ratio was 3.70%.Noninterest expense of $3.9&nbsp;billion increased by $1.7&nbsp;billion, primarily related to the Merger. Inaddition, expenses increased due to higher marketing expenses and volume-based processing expenses,partially offset by lower compensation expenses.2003 compared with 2002Operating earnings of $683&nbsp;million increased by $19&nbsp;million or 3% compared with the prior year.Earnings benefited from higher revenue, partially offset by a higher provision for credit lossesand expenses.Total net revenue of $6.1&nbsp;billion increased by 4%. Net interest income of $5.1&nbsp;billion increased by2% due to higher spread and loan balances. Noninterest revenue of $1.1&nbsp;billion increased by 11% dueto higher charge volume, which generated increased interchange income. This was partially offset byhigher rewards expense.The Provision for credit losses was $2.9&nbsp;billion, an increase of 6%, primarily due to the higherprovision for credit losses and higher losses due to loan growth. Conservative risk management andrigorous collection practices contributed to stable credit quality.Noninterest expense was $2.2&nbsp;billion, an increase of 2%, due to volume-based processing expenses,partially offset by disciplined expense management.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Selected metricsThe financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis to disclosethe effect of securitizations.The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCommercial Banking&nbsp;Commercial Banking serves more than 25,000 corporations, municipalities, financial institutions andnot-for-profit entities, with annual revenues generally ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion. Alocal market presence and a strong customer service model, coupled with a focus on risk management,provide a solid infrastructure for Commercial Banking to provide the Firm's complete product set &#150;lending, treasury services, investment banking and investment management &#150; for both corporateclients and their executives. Commercial Banking's clients benefit greatly from the Firm'sextensive branch network and often use the Firm exclusively to meet their financial services needs.Commercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major U.S. metropolitan areas. Within this network,Commercial Banking is divided into three customer coverage segments. General coverage for corporateclients is done by Middle Market Banking, which generally covers clients up to $500&nbsp;million, andCorporate Banking, which generally covers clients over $500&nbsp;million. Corporate Banking typicallyfocuses on clients that have broader investment banking needs. The third segment, Commercial RealEstate, serves investors in and developers of for-sale housing, multifamily rental, retail, officeand industrial properties. In addition to these three customer groupings, Commercial Banking offersseveral products to the Firm's entire customer base. Chase Business Credit is a leading nationalprovider of highly structured asset-based financing, syndications and collateral analysis. ChaseEquipment Leasing finances a variety of equipment types and offers vendor programs for leadingcapital and technology equipment manufacturers. Given this structure, Commercial Banking manages acustomer base and loan portfolio that is highly diversified across a broad range of industries andgeographic locations.Commercial Banking was known prior to the Merger as Chase Middle Market and was a business withinthe former Chase Financial Services.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $608&nbsp;million, an increase of 98%, primarily due to the Merger.Total net revenue was $2.4&nbsp;billion, an increase of 76%, primarily due to the Merger. In addition tothe overall increase related to the Merger, Net interest income of $1.7&nbsp;billion was positivelyaffected by higher deposit balances, partially offset by lower lending-related revenue. Noninterestrevenue of $682&nbsp;million was positively affected by higher investment banking fees and higher gainson the sale of loans and securities acquired in satisfaction of debt, partially offset by lowerservice charges on deposits, which often decline as interest rates rise.The Provision for credit losses was $41&nbsp;million, an increase of $35&nbsp;million, primarily due to theMerger. Excluding the impact of the Merger, the provision was higher in 2004. Lower net charge-offsin 2004 were partially offset by lower reductions in the Allowance for credit losses in 2004relative to 2003.Noninterest expense was $1.3&nbsp;billion, an increase of $521&nbsp;million, or 63%, primarily related to theMerger.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.2003 compared with 2002Operating earnings were $307&nbsp;million, an increase of 8% compared with 2002.Total net revenue of $1.4&nbsp;billion decreased by 1% compared with 2002. Net interest income of $1.0billion decreased by 4% compared with the prior year, primarily due to lower deposit and loanspreads, partially offset by higher deposit and loan balances. Noninterest revenue was $393million, an increase of 7%, primarily reflecting higher service charges on deposits and investmentbanking fees.The Provision for credit losses was $6&nbsp;million, a decrease of $66&nbsp;million, which resulted from alarger reduction in the Allowance for credit losses and lower net charge-offs in 2003, reflectingan improvement in credit quality.Noninterest expense was $822&nbsp;million, an increase of 2% compared with 2002. The increase was theresult of higher severance costs and performance-based incentives, partially offset by a decreasein other expenses.Selected metricsCommercial Banking revenues are comprised of the following:Lending incorporates a variety of financing alternatives, such as term loans, revolving lines ofcredit and asset-based structures and leases, which are often secured by receivables, inventory,equipment or real estate.Treasury services incorporates a broad range of products and services to help clients manageshort-term liquidity through deposits and sweeps, and longer-term investment needs through moneymarket accounts, certificates of deposit and mutual funds; manage working capital through lockbox,global trade, global clearing and commercial card products; and have ready access to information tomanage their business through online reporting tools.Investment banking products provide clients with more sophisticated capital-raising alternatives,through loan syndications, investment-grade debt, asset-backed securities, private placements,high-yield bonds and equity underwriting, and balance sheet and risk management tools throughforeign exchange, derivatives, M&A and advisory services.&nbsp; Table of ContentsTreasury & Securities Services&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing transaction, investment andinformation services to support the needs of corporations, issuers and institutional investorsworldwide. TSS is the largest cash management provider in the world and one of the top three globalcustodians. The Treasury Services business provides clients with a broad range of capabilities,including U.S. dollar and multi-currency clearing, ACH, trade, and short-term liquidity and workingcapital tools. The Investor Services business provides a wide range of capabilities, includingcustody, funds services, securities lending, and performance measurement and execution products.The Institutional Trust Services business provides trustee, depository and administrative servicesfor debt and equity issuers. Treasury Services partners with the Commercial Banking, Consumer &Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth Management segments to serve clients firmwide. As a result,certain Treasury Services revenues are included in other segments' results.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings for the year were $440&nbsp;million, an increase of $18&nbsp;million, or 4%. Results in2004 include an after-tax gain of $10&nbsp;million on the sale of an Investor Services business.Prior-year results include an after-tax gain of $22&nbsp;million on the sale of an Institutional TrustServices business. Excluding these one-time gains, operating earnings increased by $30&nbsp;million, or8%. Both net revenue and Noninterest expense increased primarily as a result of the Merger, theacquisition of Bank One's Corporate Trust business in November&nbsp;2003 and the acquisition of EFS inJanuary&nbsp;2004.TSS net revenue improved by 35% to $4.9&nbsp;billion. This revenue growth reflected the benefit of theMerger and the acquisitions noted above and improved product revenues across TSS. Net interestincome grew to $1.4&nbsp;billion from $947&nbsp;million as a result of average deposit balance growth of 44%,to $128&nbsp;billion, a change in the corporate deposit pricing methodology in 2004 and wider depositspreads. Growth in fees and commissions was driven by a 20% increase in assets under custody to$9.1 trillion as well as new business growth in trade, commercial card, global equity products,securities lending, fund services, clearing and ACH. Partially offsetting these improvements werelower service charges on deposits, which often decline as interest rates rise, and a soft municipalbond market.Treasury Services(&#147;TS&#148;) net revenue grew to $2.0&nbsp;billion, InvestorServices (&#147;IS&#148;) to $1.7&nbsp;billion andInstitutional Trust Services (&#147;ITS&#148;) to $1.2&nbsp;billion. TSS firmwide net revenue grew 41% to $6.5&nbsp;billion.TSS firmwide net revenues include Treasury Services net revenues recorded in other lines ofbusiness.Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $90&nbsp;million, compared with a credit from theInvestment Bank of $36&nbsp;million in the prior year, principally due to the Merger and a change inmethodology. TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within theInvestment Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.Noninterest expense totaled $4.1&nbsp;billion, up from $3.0&nbsp;billion, reflecting the Merger and theacquisitions noted above, $155&nbsp;million of software impairment charges, upfront transition expensesrelated to on-boarding new custody and fund accounting clients, and legal and technology-relatedexpenses.On January&nbsp;7, 2005, JPMorgan Chase agreed to acquire Vastera, a provider of global trade managementsolutions, for a total transaction value of approximately $129&nbsp;million. Vastera's business will becombined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses of the Treasury Services unit. Thetransaction is expected to close in the first half of 2005.2003 compared with 2002TSS operating earnings decreased by 23% from 2002 while delivering a return on allocated capital of15%. A 9% increase in Noninterest expense and a lower credit reimbursement contributed tothe lower earnings.Total net revenue increased by 2%, with growth at ITS of 11%. ITS revenue growth was the result ofdebt product lines, increased volume in asset servicing, a pre-tax gain of $36&nbsp;million on the saleof an Institutional Trust Services business in 2003, and the result of acquisitions whichgenerated $29&nbsp;million of new revenue in 2003. TS's revenue rose by 8% on higher trade andcommercial payment card revenue and increased balance-related earnings, including&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.higher balance-deficiency fees resulting from the lower interest rate environment. IS's revenuecontracted by 7%, the result of lower NII due to lower interest rates, lower foreign exchange andsecurities lending revenue, and a pre-tax gain of $50&nbsp;million on the sale of the Firm's interest ina non-U.S. securities clearing firm in 2002.Noninterest expense increased by 9%, attributable to higher severance, the impact of acquisitions,the cost associated with expensing of options, increased pension costs and charges to provide forlosses on subletting unoccupied excess real estate.TSS was assigned a credit reimbursement of pre-tax earnings and the associated capitalrelated to certain credit exposures managed within IB's credit portfolio on behalf of clientsshared with TSS. For 2003, the impact to TSS was to increase pre-tax operating earnings by $36million and average allocated capital by $712&nbsp;million.Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metrics include certain TSS product revenues and depositsreported in other lines of business for customers who are also customers of those lines ofbusiness. In order to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues, managementreviews firmwide metrics such as firmwide deposits, firmwide revenue and firmwide overhead ratiosin assessing financial performance for TSS. Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to understandthe aggregate TSS business.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsAsset & Wealth Management&nbsp;Asset & Wealth Management provides investment management to retail and institutional investors,financial intermediaries and high-net-worth families and individuals globally. For retailinvestors, AWM provides investment management products and services, including a global mutual fundfranchise, retirement plan administration, and consultation and brokerage services. AWM deliversinvestment management to institutional investors across all asset classes. The Private bank andPrivate client services businesses provide integrated wealth management services toultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients, respectively.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $681&nbsp;million, up 137% from the prior year, due largely to the Merger butalso driven by increased revenue and a decrease in the Provision for credit losses; these werepartially offset by higher Compensation expense.Total net revenue was $4.2&nbsp;billion, up 41%, primarily due to the Merger. Additionally, fees andcommissions increased due to global equity market appreciation, net asset inflows and theacquisition of JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services (&#147;RPS&#148;) in the second quarter of 2003. Fees andcommissions also increased due to an improved product mix, with an increased percentage of assetsin higher-yielding products. Net interest income increased due to deposit and loan growth.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $14&nbsp;million, a decrease of $49&nbsp;million, due to animprovement in credit quality.Noninterest expense was $3.1&nbsp;billion, up 26%, due to the Merger as well as increased Compensationexpense and the impact of increased technology and marketing initiatives.2003 compared with 2002Operating earnings were $287&nbsp;million, up 3% from the prior year, reflecting an improved creditportfolio, the benefit of slightly higher revenues. During the second quarter of 2003, the Firmacquired American Century Retirement Plan Services Inc., a provider of defined contributionrecordkeeping services, as part of its strategy to grow its U.S. retail investment managementbusiness. The business was renamed JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services (&#147;RPS&#148;).Total net revenue was $3.0&nbsp;billion, up 1% from the prior year. The increase in fees and commissionsreflected the acquisition of RPS and increased average equity market valuations in clientportfolios, partly offset by institutional net outflows. Net interest income increased due tohigher brokerage account balances and spreads. The decline in Other income primarily reflectednon-recurring items in 2002.The Provision for credit losses decreased by 59%, due to an improvement in credit quality andrecoveries.Noninterest expense was $2.5&nbsp;billion, up $78&nbsp;million from 2002, reflecting the acquisition of RPS,higher Compensation expense, and real estate and software write-offs, partly offset by thecontinued impact of expense-management programs.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.AWM's client segments are comprised of the following:The Private bank addresses every facet of wealth management for ultra-high-net-worth individualsand families worldwide, including investment management, capital markets and risk management, taxand estate planning, banking, capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.Retail provides more than 2&nbsp;million customers worldwide with investment management, retirementplanning and administration, and brokerage services through third-party and direct distributionchannels.Institutional serves more than 3,000 large and mid-size corporate and public institutions,endowments and foundations, and governments globally. AWM offers institutions comprehensive globalinvestment services, including investment management across asset classes, pension analytics,asset-liability management, active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.Private client services offers high-net-worth individuals, families and business ownerscomprehensive wealth management solutions that include financial planning, personal trust,investment and banking products and services.Assets under supervision2004 compared with 2003Assets under supervision (&#147;AUS&#148;) at December&nbsp;31, 2004 were $1.3 trillion, up 66% from 2003, andAssets under management (&#147;AUM&#148;) were $791&nbsp;billion, up 41% from the prior year. The increases wereprimarily the result of the Merger, as well as market appreciation, net asset inflows and theacquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management. The Firm also has a 43%interest in American Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $98&nbsp;billion and $87&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Custody, brokerage, administration, and deposits were$478&nbsp;billion, up 135%, primarily due to the Merger, as well as market appreciation and net inflowsacross all products.2003 compared with 2002AUS at December&nbsp;31, 2003, totaled $764&nbsp;billion, up 19% from the prior year-end. AUM totaled $561billion, up 9%, and custody, brokerage, administration and deposit accounts were $203&nbsp;billion, up54%. The increase in AUM was driven by higher equity market valuations in client portfolios, partlyoffset by institutional net outflows. Custody, brokerage, administration and deposits grew by $70billion, driven by the acquisition of RPS ($41&nbsp;billion), higher equity market valuations in clientportfolios and net inflows from Private bank clients.The diversification of AUS across product classes, client segments and geographic regions helped tomitigate the impact of market volatility on revenue. The Firm also had a 44% interest in AmericanCentury Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $87&nbsp;billion and $72&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003 and2002, respectively.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCorporate&nbsp;The Corporate sector iscomprised of Private Equity, Treasury, andcorporate staff and other centrally managed expenses. Private Equity includes JPMorgan Partners and ONEEquity Partners businesses. Treasury manages the structural interest raterisk and investment portfolio for the Firm. The corporate staff areas include Central Technology and Operations,Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, General Services, Human Resources, Marketing& Communications, Office of the General Counsel, Real Estate and Business Services, RiskManagement, and Strategy and Development. Other centrally managed expenses include items such asthe Firm's occupancy and pension expense, net of allocations to the business.Selected income statement data2004 compared with 2003Operating earnings were $61&nbsp;million, down from earnings of $668&nbsp;million in the prior year.Noninterest revenue was $1.8&nbsp;billion, up 43% from the prior year. The primary component ofnoninterest revenue is Securities/private equity gains, which totaled $1.8&nbsp;billion, up 73% from theprior year. The increase was a result of net gains in the Private Equity portfolio of $1.4&nbsp;billionin 2004, compared with $27&nbsp;million in net gains in 2003. Partially offsetting these gains werelower investment securities gains in Treasury.Net interest income was a negative $1.2&nbsp;billion, compared with a negative $177&nbsp;million in the prioryear. The decline was driven primarily by actions and policies adopted in conjunction with theMerger.Noninterest expense of $1.3&nbsp;billion was up $772&nbsp;million from the prior year due to the Merger. TheMerger resulted in higher gross compensation and noncompensation expenses, which were partiallyoffset by higher allocation of these expenses to the businesses. Incremental allocations to thebusinesses were lower than the gross expense increase due to certain policies adopted inconjunction with the Merger. These policies retain overhead costs that would not be incurred by thelines of business if operated on a stand-alone basis, as well as costs in excess of the marketprice for services provided by the corporate staff and technology and operations areas.On September&nbsp;15, 2004, JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the Firm's plans to reintegrate theportions of its technology infrastructure &#150; including data centers, help desks, distributedcomputing, data networks and voice networks &#150; that were previously outsourced to IBM. In January2005, approximately 3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.2003 compared with 2002For 2003, Corporate had operating earnings of $668&nbsp;million, compared with an operating loss of $235million in 2002, driven primarily by higher gains in the Private Equity portfolio and income taxbenefits not allocated to the business segments.Selected metrics&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Selected income statement andbalance sheet data &#150; Private equity2004 compared with 2003Private Equity's operating earnings for the year totaled $602&nbsp;million, compared with a loss of $290million in 2003. This improvement reflected a $1.4&nbsp;billion increase in total private equity gains.In 2004, markets improved for investment sales, resulting in $1.4&nbsp;billion of realized gains ondirect investments, compared with $535&nbsp;million in 2003. Net write-downs on direct investments were$192&nbsp;million in 2004, compared with $404&nbsp;million in 2003, as valuations continued to stabilize amidpositive market conditions.The carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio at December&nbsp;31, 2004, was $7.5&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $247&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2003. The increase was primarily the result of theMerger. Otherwise, the portfolio declined as a result of sales of investments, consistent withmanagement's intention to reduce over time the capital committed to private equity. Sales ofthird-party fund investments resulted in a decrease in carrying value of $458&nbsp;million, to $641million at December&nbsp;31, 2004, compared with $1.1&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003.2003 compared with 2002The private equity portfolio recognized negative Total net revenue of $190&nbsp;million and operatinglosses of $290&nbsp;million in 2003. Opportunities to realize value through sales, recapitalizations andinitial public offerings (&#147;IPOs&#148;) of investments, although limited, improved during the year as theM&A and IPO markets started to recover.Private equity gains totaled $27&nbsp;million in 2003, compared with losses of $733&nbsp;million in 2002.Private equity recognized gains of $346&nbsp;million on direct investments and losses of $319&nbsp;million onsales and writedowns of private third-party fund investments.&nbsp; Table of ContentsBalance sheet analysis&nbsp;Selected balance sheet dataBalance sheet overviewAt December&nbsp;31, 2004, the Firm's total assets were $1.2 trillion, an increase of $386&nbsp;billion, or50%, from the prior year, primarily as a result of the Merger. Merger-related growth in assets wasprimarily in: Available-for-sale securities; interests in purchased receivables related to BankOne's conduit business; wholesale and consumer loans; and goodwill and other intangibles, which wasprimarily the result of the purchase accounting impact of the Merger. Nonmerger-related growth wasprimarily due to the IB's increased trading activity, which is reflected in securities purchased underresale agreements and securities borrowed, as well as trading assets.At December&nbsp;31, 2004, the Firm's total liabilities were $1.1 trillion, an increase of $327&nbsp;billion,or 45%, from the prior year, again primarily as a result of the Merger. Merger-related growth inliabilities was primarily in interest-bearing U.S. deposits, long-term debt, trust preferredsecurities and beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.Nonmerger-related growth in liabilities was primarily driven by increases in noninterest-bearingU.S. deposits and the IB's trading activity, which is reflected in securities sold under repurchaseagreements, partially offset by reductions in federal funds purchased.Trading assets &#150; debt and equity instrumentsThe Firm's debt and equity trading assets consist primarily of fixed income (including governmentand corporate debt) and cash equity and convertible instruments used for both market-making andproprietary risk-taking activities. The increase over 2003 was primarily due to growth inclient-driven market-making activities across interest rate, credit and equity markets, as well asan increase in proprietary trading activities.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivative receivables and payablesThe Firm uses various interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity derivatives formarket-making, proprietary risk-taking and risk management purposes. The decline from 2003 wasprimarily due to the Firm's election, effective January&nbsp;1, 2004, to report the fair value ofderivative assets and liabilities net of cash received and paid, respectively, under legallyenforceable master netting agreements. For additional information, refer to Credit risk managementand Note 3 on pages 57&#150;69 and 90&#150;91, respectively, of this Annual Report.SecuritiesAFS securities include fixed income (e.g., U.S. Government agency and asset-backed securities, aswell as non-U.S. government and corporate debt) and equity instruments. The Firm uses AFSsecurities primarily to manage interest rate risk. The AFS portfolio grew by $34.3&nbsp;billion from the2003&nbsp;year-end primarily due to the Merger. Partially offsetting the increase were net sales in theTreasury portfolio since the second quarter of 2004. In anticipation of the Merger, both heritagefirms reduced the level of their AFS securities to reposition the combined firm. For additionalinformation related to securities, refer to Note 9 on pages 98&#150;100 of this Annual Report.LoansLoans, net of allowance, were $394.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004, an increase of 88% from theprior year, primarily due to the Merger. Also contributing to the increase was growth in both theRFS and CS loan portfolios, partially offset by lower wholesale loans in the IB. For a moredetailed discussion of the loan portfolio and allowance for credit losses, refer to Credit riskmanagement on pages 57&#150;69 of this Annual Report.Goodwill and other intangible assetsThe $42.9&nbsp;billion increase in Goodwill and other intangibleassets from the prior year wasprimarily the result of the Merger and, to a lesser extent, theFirm's other acquisitions such as EFS andthe majority stake in Highbridge. For additional information, see Note 15 on pages 109&#150;111 of thisAnnual Report.DepositsDeposits are a key source of funding. The stability of this funding source is affected by suchfactors as returns available to customers on alternative investments, the quality of customerservice levels and competitive forces. Deposits increased by 60% from December&nbsp;31, 2003, primarilythe result of the Merger and growth in deposits in TSS. For more information, refer to the TSSsegment discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 43&#150;44 and 55&#150;56,respectively, of this Annual Report.Long-term debtLong-term debt increased by 99% from the prior year, primarily due to the Merger and net new debtissuances. For additional information on the Firm's long-term debt activity, see the Liquidity riskmanagement discussion on pages 55&#150;56 of this Annual Report.Stockholders' equityTotal stockholders' equity increased by 129% to $105.7&nbsp;billion, primarily as a result of theMerger. For a further discussion of capital, see Capital management on pages 50&#150;52 of this AnnualReport.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Capital management&nbsp;The Firm's capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is capital sufficientto support the underlying risks of the Firm's business activities, measured by economic riskcapital, and to maintain &#147;well-capitalized&#148; status under regulatory requirements. In addition, theFirm holds capitalabove these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve management's debt ratingobjectives. The Firm's capital framework is integratedinto the process of assigning equity to the lines of business. The Firm may refine its methodologyfor assigning equity to the lines of business as themerger integration process continues.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital is based on the following objectives:Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes the business would require ifit were operating independently, incorporating sufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements, and capital levels for similarly rated peers. Return onequity is measured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a primary measureof a business segment's performance.For performance management purposes, the Firm does not allocate goodwill to the lines of businessbecause it believes that the accounting-driven allocationof goodwill could distort assessment of relative returns. In management's view, this approachfosters better comparison of line of business returns with otherinternal business segments, as well as with peers. The Firm assigns an amount of equity capitalequal to the then current book value of its goodwill to theCorporate segment. The return on invested capital related to the Firm's goodwill assets is managedwithin this segment. In accordance with SFAS 142, the Firmallocates goodwill to the lines of business based on the underlying fair values of the businessesand then performs the required impairment testing. For a furtherdiscussion of goodwill and impairment testing, see Critical accounting estimates and Note 15 onpages 77&#150;79 and 109&#150;111 respectively, of this Annual Report.This integrated approach to assigning equity to the lines of business is a new methodologyresulting from the Merger. Therefore, current year line ofbusiness equity is not comparable to equity assigned to the lines of business in prior years. Theincrease in average common equity in the table below for2004 was primarily attributable to the Merger.Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the underlying risks of the Firm'sbusiness activities, utilizing internal risk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns economiccapital based primarily on five risk factors: credit risk, market risk, operational risk andbusiness risk for each business; and private equity risk, principally for the Firm's private equitybusiness.Credit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses (Investment Bank,Commercial Banking, Asset & Wealth Management andTreasury & Securities Services) and consumer businesses (Retail Financial Services and CardServices).Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, from both defaults and declines in market valuedue to credit deterioration, measured over a one-year period at a confidence level consistent withthe level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted &#145;AA' solvency standard. Unexpectedlosses are in excess of those for which provisions for credit losses are maintained. In addition tomaturity and correlations, capital allocation is differentiated by several principal drivers ofcredit risk: exposure at default (or loan equivalent amount), likelihood of default, loss severity,and market credit spread.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is intended to represent a capital levelsufficient to support an &#145;AA' rating, and its allocation is based on product and other relevantrisk segmentation. Actual segment level default and severity experience are used to estimateunexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a confidence level equivalent to the &#145;AA' solvencystandard. Statistical results for certain segments or portfolios are adjusted upward to ensure thatcapital is consistent with external benchmarks, including subordination levels on markettransactions and capital held at representative monoline competitors, where appropriate.Market risk capitalThe Firm allocates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should reflect theextent to which risks are present in businesses. Daily VAR, monthly stress-test results and otherfactors determine appropriate capital charges for major business segments. See Market riskmanagement on pages 70&#150;74 of this Annual Report for more information about these market riskmeasures. The Firm allocates market risk capital to each business segment according to a formulathat weights that segment's VAR and stress test exposures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottoms-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based on actual losses and potential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflect changes in the quality of the control environmentand with a potential offset for the use of risk-transfer products. The Firm believes the model isconsistent with the new Basel II Framework and expects to propose it eventually for qualificationunder the advanced measurement approach for operational risk.Business risk capitalBusiness risk is defined as the risk associated with volatility in the Firm's earnings due tofactors not captured by other parts of its economic-capital framework. Such volatility can arisefrom ineffective design or execution of business strategies, volatile economic or financial marketactivity, changing client expectations and demands, and restructuring to adjust for changes in thecompetitive environment. For business risk, capital is allocated to each business based onhistorical revenue volatility and measures of fixed and variable expenses. Earnings volatilityarising from other risk factors, such as credit, market, or operational risk, is excluded from themeasurement of business risk capital, as those factors are captured under their respective riskcapital models.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to publicly- and privately-held securities and third party fund investmentsand commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover the potential loss associated with adecline in equity markets and related asset devaluations. In addition to negative marketfluctuations, potential losses in private equity investment portfolios can be magnified byliquidity risk. The capital allocation for the Private Equity portfolio is based upon measurementof the loss experience suffered by the Firm and other market participants over a prolonged periodof adverse equity market conditions.Regulatory capitalThe Firm's federal banking regulator, the FRB, establishes capital requirements, includingwell-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial holding company. The Office of theComptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for theFirm's nationalbanks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank&#148;)and Chase Bank USA, National Association.On March&nbsp;1, 2005, theFRB issued a final rule that continues the inclusion of trustpreferred securities in Tier&nbsp;1 capital, subject to stricterquantitative limits. The rule provides for a five-year transitionperiod. The Firm is currently assessing the impact of the final rule.The effective date of the final rule is dependent on the date ofpublication in the Federal Register.On July&nbsp;20, 2004, the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule that excludes assetsof asset-backed commercial paper programs that are consolidated as a result of FIN 46R fromrisk-weighted assets for purposes of computing Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. Thefinal rule also requires that capital be held against short-term liquidity facilities supportingasset-backed commercial paper programs. The final rule became effective September&nbsp;30, 2004.Adoption of the rule did not have a material effect on the capital ratios of the Firm. In addition,under the final rule, both short- and long-term liquidity facilities will be subject to certainasset quality tests effective September&nbsp;30, 2005.The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capitalized position based on Tier1 and Total capital ratios at December&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003.Capital ratiosRisk-based capital components and assetsTier 1 capital was $68.6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004, compared with $43.2&nbsp;billion at December31, 2003, an increase of $25.4&nbsp;billion. The increase was due to an increase in common stockholders'equity of $60.2&nbsp;billion, primarily driven by stock issued in connection with the Merger of $57.3billion and net income of $4.5&nbsp;billion; these were partially offset by dividends paid of $3.9billion and common share repurchases of $738&nbsp;million. The Merger added Tier 1 components such as$3.0&nbsp;billion of additional qualifying trust preferred securities and $493&nbsp;million of minorityinterests in consolidated subsidiaries; Tier 1 deductions resulting from the Merger included $34.1billion of merger-related goodwill, and $3.4&nbsp;billion of nonqualifying intangibles.Additional information regarding the Firm's capital ratios and the associated components andassets, and a more detailed discussion of federal regulatory capital standards are presented inNote 24 on pages 116&#150;117 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Basel IIThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II Framework in 2004 in aneffort to update the original international bank capital accord (&#147;Basel I&#148;), in effect since 1988.The goal of the Basel II Framework is to improve the consistency of capital requirementsinternationally, make regulatory capital more risk sensitive, and promote enhanced risk managementpractices among large, internationally active banking organizations. JPMorgan Chase supports theoverall objectives of the Basel II Framework.U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Framework into theexisting risk-based capital requirements. JPMorgan Chase will be required to implement advancedmeasurement techniques employing its internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derivecapital requirements. Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework, JPMorgan Chase will berequired to demonstrate to the FRB that its internal criteria meet the relevant supervisorystandards. The Basel II Framework will be fully effective in January&nbsp;2008. JPMorgan Chase expectsto implement the Basel II Framework within this timeframe.JPMorgan Chase is currently analyzing local Basel II requirements in major jurisdictions outsidethe U.S. where it operates. Based on the results of this analysis, different approaches may beimplemented in various jurisdictions.DividendsThe Firm's common stock dividend policy reflects its earnings outlook, desired payout ratios,the need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative investment opportunities. In 2004,JPMorgan Chase declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share. The Firmanticipates a dividend payout ratio in 2005 of 30-40% of operating earnings.Stock repurchasesOn July&nbsp;20, 2004, the Board of Directors approved an initial stock repurchase program in theaggregate amount of $6.0&nbsp;billion. This amount includes shares to be repurchased to offset issuancesunder the Firm's employee equity-based plans. The actual amount of shares repurchased will besubject to various factors, including market conditions; legal considerations affecting the amountand timing of repurchase activity; the Firm's capital position (taking into account purchaseaccounting adjustments); internal capital generation; and alternative potential investmentopportunities. During 2004, under the stock repurchase program, the Firm repurchased 19.3&nbsp;millionshares for $738&nbsp;million at an average price per share of $38.27. The Firm did not repurchase anyshares of its common stock during 2003.Off&#150;balance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations&nbsp;Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet arrangements includingspecial purpose entities (&#147;SPEs&#148;), lines of credit and loan commitments. The principal uses of SPEsare to obtain sources of liquidity for JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing theirfinancial assets, and to create other investment products for clients. These arrangements are animportant part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity by facilitating investors'access to specific portfolios of assets and risks. For example, SPEs are integral to the marketsfor mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, and other asset-backed securities.The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase ofthose assets by issuing securities to investors. To insulate investors from creditors of otherentities, including the seller of assets, SPEs are often structured to be bankruptcy-remote.JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories of transactions: loansecuritizations, multi-seller conduits and client intermediation. Capital is held, as appropriate,against all SPE-related transactions and related exposures, such as derivative transactions andlending-related commitments. For a further discussion of SPEs and the Firm's accounting for them,see Note 1 on page 88, Note 13 on pages 103&#150;106 and Note 14 on pages 106&#150;109 of this AnnualReport.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conducted at arm's length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with whichthe Firm is involved where such investment would violate the Firm's Worldwide Rulesof Conduct.These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit employees from acting on behalf ofthe Firm in transactions with which they or their family have any significant financial interest.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could be required to provide funding if thecredit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded below specific levels, primarily P-1, A-1 andF1 for Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amount of these liquiditycommitments was $79.4&nbsp;billion and $34.0&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.Alternatively, if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded, the Firm could be replaced by anotherliquidity provider in lieu of funding under the liquidity commitment, or, in certain circumstances,could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.Of its $79.4&nbsp;billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December&nbsp;31, 2004, $47.7&nbsp;billion isincluded in the Firm's total other unfunded commitments to extend credit, included in the tablebelow (compared with $27.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003). As a result of the Firm's consolidationof multi-seller conduits in accordance with FIN 46R, $31.7&nbsp;billion of these commitments areexcluded from the table (compared with $6.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003), as the underlying assetsof the SPEs have been included on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets.The revenue reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and custodial fee income.The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from derivative transactions; these transactionsare recorded at fair value on the Firm's Consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value(i.e., MTM gains and losses) recorded in Trading revenue. Such MTM gains and losses are notincluded in the revenue amounts reported in the table below.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes certain revenue information related to variable interestentities (&#147;VIEs&#148;) with which the Firm has significant involvement, and qualifying SPEs (&#147;QSPEs&#148;).For a further discussion of VIEs and QSPEs, see Note 1 on page 88 of this Annual Report.Revenue from VIEs and QSPEsContractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firm enters into various contractual obligations that mayrequire future cash payments. The accompanying table summarizes JPMorgan Chase's off&#150;balance sheetlending-related financialinstruments and significant contractual cash obligations, by remainingmaturity, at December&nbsp;31, 2004. For a discussion regarding Long-term debt and trust preferredcapital securities, see Note 17 on pages 112&#150;113 of this Annual Report. For a discussion regardingoperating leases, see Note 25 on page 117 of this Annual Report.Contractual purchases include commitments for future cash expenditures, primarily related toservices. Capital expenditures primarily represent future cash payments for real estate&#150;relatedobligations and equipment. Contractual purchases and capital expenditures at December&nbsp;31, 2004,reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract termsthat are both fixed and determinable. Excluded from the following table are a number of obligationsto be settled in cash, primarily in under one year. These obligations are reflected on the Firm'sConsolidated balance sheets and include Federal funds purchased and securities sold underrepurchase agreements; Other borrowed funds; purchases of Debt and equity instruments that settlewithin standard market timeframes (e.g., regular-way); Derivative payables that do not requirephysical delivery of the underlying instrument; and certain purchases of instruments that resultedin settlement failures.Off&#150;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Risk management&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase's business activities. The Firm's riskmanagement framework and governance structure is intended to provide comprehensive controls andongoing management of its major risks. In addition, this framework recognizes the diversity amongthe Firm's core businesses, which helps reduce the impact of volatility in any particular area onits operating results as a whole.The Firm's ability to properly identify, measure, monitor and report risk is critical to itssoundness and profitability.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure is built upon the premise that each line of business isresponsible for managing the risks inherent in its business activity. There are seven major risktypes identified in the business activities of the Firm: liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk,operational risk, legal and reputation risk, fiduciary risk and principal risk. Aspart of the risk management structure, each line of business has a Risk Committee responsible fordecisions relating to risk strategy, policies and control. Where appropriate, the Risk Committeesescalate risk issues to the Firm's Operating Committee, comprised of senior officers of the Firm,or to the Risk Working Group, a subgroup of the Operating Committee.In addition to the RiskCommittees, there is an Asset & Liability Committee(&#147;ALCO&#148;), which overseesstructural interest rate and liquidity risk as well as the Firm's funds transfer pricingpolicy, through which lines of business transfer market-hedgable interest rate risk to Treasury.Treasury also has responsibility for decisions relating to its risk strategy, policies andcontrol. There is also an Investment Committee, which reviews key aspects of the Firm's global M&Aactivities that are undertaken for its own account and that fall outside the scope ofestablished private equity and other principal finance activities.Overlaying risk management within the lines of business is the corporate function of RiskManagement which, under the direction of the Chief Risk Officer reporting to the President andChief Operating Officer, provides an independent firmwide function for control and management ofrisk. WithinRisk Management are those units responsible for credit risk, market risk, operational risk,fiduciary risk, principal risk, and risk technology and operations, as well as RiskManagement Services, which is responsible for credit risk policy and methodology, risk reportingand risk education.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe Board of Directors exercises oversight of risk management as a whole and through the Board'sAudit Committee and the Risk Policy Committee. The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight ofguidelines and policies to govern the process by which risk assessment and management isundertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews with management the system of internalcontrols and financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliancewith the Firm's operational risk management processes. The Risk Policy Committee is responsible foroversight of management'sresponsibilities to assess and manage the Firm's credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk,investment risk and liquidity risk, and is also responsible for review of the Firm's fiduciary andasset management activities. Both committees are responsible for oversight of reputational risk.The Chief Risk Officer and other management report on the risks of the Firm to the Board ofDirectors, particularly through the Board's Audit Committee and Risk Policy Committee.The major risk types identified by the Firm are discussed in the following sections.Liquidity risk management&nbsp;Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the Firm's activities and in themanagement of its assets and liabilities. JPMorgan Chase's liquidity management framework isintended to maximize liquidity access and minimize funding costs. Through active liquiditymanagement, the Firm seeks to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding. Thisenables the Firm to replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropriate maturitiesand rates in all market environments. To accomplish this, management uses a variety of liquidityrisk measures that take into consideration market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidityneeds and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.Risk identification and measurementTreasury is responsible for setting the Firm's liquidity strategy and targets, understandingthe Firm's on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, providing policy guidance, overseeingpolicy adherence, and maintaining contingency planning and stress testing. In addition, itidentifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals, such as the unusualwidening of spreads, to permit early detection of liquidity issues.The Firm's three primary measures of liquidity are:All three primary liquidity measures are managed to provide sufficient surplus in theFirm's liquidity position.Risk monitoring and reportingTreasury is responsible for measuring, monitoring, reporting and managing the liquidity profile ofthe Firm through both normal and stress periods. Treasury analyzes reports to monitor the diversityand maturity structure of the Firm's sources of funding, and to assess downgrade impact scenarios,contingent funding needs, and overall collateral availability and pledging status. A contingencyfunding plan is in place, intended to help the Firm manage through periods when access to fundingis temporarily impaired. A downgrade analysis considers the potential impact of a one- andtwo-notchdowngrade at both the parent and bank level, and calculates the estimated loss of funding as wellas the increase in annual funding costs in both scenarios. A trigger-risk funding analysisconsiders the impact of a bank downgrade below A-1/P-1, including the funding requirements thatwould be required if such an event were to occur. These liquidity analytics rely on management'sjudgment about JPMorgan Chase's ability to liquidate assets or use them as collateral forborrowings and take into account credit risk management's historical data on the funding of loancommitments (e.g., commercial paper back-up facilities), liquidity commitments to SPEs, commitmentswith rating triggers and collateral posting requirements. For a further discussion of SPEs andother off-balance sheet arrangements, see Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual cashobligations on pages 52-53, as well as Note 1, Note 13, Note 14 and Note 27 on pages 88,103-106, 106-109, and 119-120, respectively, of this Annual Report.FundingSources of fundsThe diversity of the Firm's funding sources enhances financial flexibility and limitsdependence on any one source, thereby minimizing the cost of funds. A major source of liquidity forJPMorgan Chase Bank is provided by its large core deposit base. Core deposits include all U.S.deposits insured by the FDIC, up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor. In 2004, core bankdeposits grew approximately 116% from 2003&nbsp;year-end levels, primarily the result of the Merger, aswell as growth within RFS and TSS. In addition to core deposits, the Firm benefits fromsubstantial, stable deposit balances originated by TSS, Commercial Banking and the IB through thenormal course of their businesses.Additional funding flexibility is provided by the Firm's ability to access the repurchase and assetsecuritization markets. At December&nbsp;31, 2004, $72&nbsp;billion of securities were available forrepurchase agreements, and $36&nbsp;billion of credit card, automobile and mortgage loans were availablefor securitizations. These alternatives are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriatebalance of secured and unsecured funding. The ability to securitize loans, and the associated gainson those securitizations, are principally dependent on the credit quality and yields of the assetssecuritized and are generally not dependent on the credit ratings of the issuing entity.Transactions between the Firm and its securitization structures are reflected in JPMorgan Chase'sconsolidated financial statements; these relationships include retained interests in securitizationtrusts, liquidity facilities and derivative transactions. For further details, see Notes 13 and 14on pages 103-106 and 106-109, respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The Firm is an active participant in the global financial markets. These markets serve as acost-effective source of funds and are a critical component of the Firm's liquidity management.Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs,general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidityprofile.IssuanceCorporate credit spreads narrowed in 2004 across most industries and sectors, reflecting the marketperception that credit risks were improving, as the number of downgrades declined, corporatebalance sheet cash positions increased, and corporate profits exceeded expectations. JPMorganChase's credit spreads performed in line with peer spreads in 2004. The Firm took advantage ofnarrowing credit spreads globally by opportunistically issuing long-term debt and capitalsecurities throughout the year. Consistent with its liquidity management policy, the Firm hasraised funds at the parent holdingcompany sufficient to cover maturing obligations over the next 12&nbsp;months and to support the lessliquid assets on its balance sheet. High investor cash positions and increased foreign investorparticipation in the corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify further its fundingacross the global markets while decreasing funding costs and lengthening maturities.During 2004, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $25.3&nbsp;billion of long-term debt and capitalsecurities. These issuances were partially offset by $ 16.0&nbsp;billion of long-term debt and capitalsecurities that matured or were redeemed, and the Firm's redemption of $670&nbsp;million ofpreferred stock. In addition, in 2004 the Firm securitized approximately $6.5&nbsp;billion ofresidential mortgage loans, $8.9&nbsp;billion of credit card loans and $1.6&nbsp;billion of automobile loans,resulting in pre-tax gains (losses)&nbsp;on securitizations of $47&nbsp;million, $52&nbsp;million and $(3)million, respectively. For a further discussion of loan securitizations, see Note 13 on pages103-106 of this Annual Report.Credit ratingsThe credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and each of its significantbanking subsidiaries, as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, were as follows:The Firm's principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength ratingsas of December&nbsp;31, 2004:In connection with the Merger, Moody's upgraded the ratings of the Firm by one notch, moving theparent holding company's senior long-term debt rating to Aa3 and JPMorgan Chase Bank's seniorlong-term debt rating to Aa2; and changed its outlook to stable. Also at that time, Fitch affirmedits ratings and changed its outlook to positive, while S&P affirmed all its ratings and kept itsoutlook stable.The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit ratings. A reduction inthese ratings could adversely affect the Firm's access toliquidity sources, increase the cost of funds, trigger additional collateral requirements anddecrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend. Critical factors inmaintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream; strong capitalratios; strong credit quality and risk management controls; diverse funding sources; and strongliquidity monitoring procedures.If the Firm's ratings were downgraded by one notch, the Firm estimates the incremental cost offunds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible. Additionally, the Firm estimates theadditional funding requirements for VIEs and other third-party commitments would not bematerial. In the current environment, the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely. Foradditional information on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on funding requirements forVIEs, and on derivatives and collateral agreements, see Off-balance Sheet Arrangements on pages52-53 and Ratings profile of derivative receivables mark-to-market (&#147;MTM&#148;) on page 64, of thisAnnual Report.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit risk management&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. The Firm providescredit to customers of all sizes, from large corporate clients to loans for the individualconsumer. Management manages the risk/reward relationship of each portfolio, discouraging theretention of loan assets that do not generate a positive return above the cost of risk-adjustedcapital. The Firm's business strategy for its large corporate wholesale loan portfolio remainsprimarily one of origination for distribution; the majority of the Firm's wholesaleloan originations (primarily to IB clients) continue to be distributed into the marketplace, withresidual holds by the Firm averaging less than 10%. With regard to the prime consumer creditmarket, the Firm focuses on creating a portfolio that is diversified from both a product and ageographical perspective.The Firm's credit risk management governance structure consists of the primary functions asdescribed in the organizational chart below.Credit risk organization&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.In 2004, the Firm continued to enhance its risk management discipline, managing wholesalesingle-name and industry concentration through its threshold and limit structure and using creditderivatives and loan sales in its portfolio management activity. The Firm manages wholesaleexposure concentrations by obligor, risk rating, industry and geography. In addition, the Firmcontinued to make progress under its multi-year initiative to reengineer specific components of thecredit risk infrastructure. The goal is to enhance the Firm's ability to provide immediate andaccurate risk and exposure information; actively manage credit risk in the retained portfolio;support client relationships; more quickly manage the allocation of economic capital; and complywith Basel II initiatives.In 2004, the Firm continued to grow its consumer loan portfolio, focusing on businesses providingthe most appropriate risk/reward relationship while keeping within the Firm's desired risktolerance. During the past year, the Firm also completed a strategic review of all consumer lendingportfolio segments. This action resulted in the sale of the $4&nbsp;billion manufactured home loanportfolio, de-emphasizing vehicle leasing and, subsequent to year-end 2004, the sale of a $2billion recreational vehicle portfolio. Continued growth in the core consumer lending product set(residential real estate, auto and education finance, credit cards and small business) reflected afocus on the prime credit quality segment of the market.Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through its lending (e.g., loans and lending-relatedcommitments), derivatives trading and capital markets activities. Credit risk also arises due tocountry or sovereign exposure, as well as indirectly through the issuance of guarantees.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Losses generated by consumer loans are more predictable thanwholesale losses but are subject to cyclical and seasonal factors. Although the frequency of lossis higher on consumer loans than on wholesale loans, the severity of loss is typically lower andmore manageable. As a result of these differences, methodologies vary depending on certain factors,including type of asset (e.g., consumer installment versus wholesale loan), risk measurementparameters (e.g., delinquency status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and riskmanagement and collection processes (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managedworkout groups).Credit risk measurement is based on the amount of exposure should the obligor or the counterpartydefault, and the loss severity given a default event. Based on these factors and relatedmarket-based inputs, the Firm estimates both probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale andconsumer portfolios. Probable losses, reflected in the Provision for credit losses, arestatistically-based estimates of credit losses over time, anticipated as a result of obligor orcounterparty default. However, probable losses are not the sole indicators of risk. If losses wereentirely predictable, the probable loss rate could be factored into pricing and covered as a normaland recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected losses, reflected in the allocation of credit riskcapital, represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level oflosses (refer to Capital management on pages 50-51 of this Annual Report for a further discussionof the credit risk capital methodology). Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio is primarilybased on risk-rated exposure; and for the consumer portfolio it is based on credit-scored exposure.Risk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated, probable and unexpected loss calculations are based onestimates of probability of default and loss given default. Probability of default is expecteddefault calculated on an obligor basis. Loss given default is an estimate of losses that are basedon collateral and structural support for each credit facility. Calculations and assumptions arebased on management information systems and methodologies under continual review. Risk ratings areassigned and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit Risk Management and revised, if needed, toreflect the borrowers' current risk profile and the related collateral and structural position.Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally Retail Financial Services and Card Services), probable lossis based on a statistical analysis of inherent losses over discrete periods of time. Probablelosses are estimated using sophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoring and decision-supporttools to project credit risks and establish underwriting standards. In addition, common measures ofcredit quality derived from historical loss experience are used to predict consumer losses. Otherrisk characteristics evaluated include recent loss experience in the portfolios, changes inorigination sources, portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlying credit practices, includingcharge-off policies. These analyses are applied to the Firm's current portfolios inorder to forecast delinquencies and severity of losses, which determine the amount of probablelosses. These factors and analyses are updated on a quarterly basis.Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks are accurately assessed, properly approved,continually monitored and actively managed at both the transaction and portfolio levels. The policyframework establishes credit approval authorities, credit limits, risk-rating methodologies,portfolio-review parameters and problem-loan management. Wholesale credit risk is continuallymonitored on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an individual customer basis. For consumercredit risk, the key focus items are trends and concentrations at the portfolio level, wherepotential problems can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolioguidelines. Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against business expectations andindustry benchmarks.In order to meet its credit risk management objectives, the Firm seeks to maintain a risk profilethat is diverse in terms of borrower, product type, industry and geographic concentration.Additional diversification of the Firm's exposure is accomplished through syndication of credits,participations, loan sales, securitizations, credit derivatives and other risk-reductiontechniques.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making, aggregate credit exposure, credit metricforecasts, hold-limit exceptions and risk profile changes are reported to senior credit risk managementregularly. Detailed portfolio reporting of industry, customer and geographic concentrationsoccurs monthly, and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed bysenior management on a quarterly basis. Through the risk governance structure, credit risk trendsand limit exceptions are regularly provided to, and discussed with, the Operating Committee.&nbsp; Table of ContentsCredit portfolio&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase's credit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003.Total wholesale credit exposure increased by $167&nbsp;billion, and total consumerexposure increased by $584&nbsp;billion, at year-end 2004 from year-end 2003.This increase in total exposure (including $71&nbsp;billion of securitized credit cards) was primarily the result of the Merger.Wholesale and consumer credit portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Wholesale credit portfolio&nbsp;The increase in total wholesale exposure was almost entirely due to the Merger.Derivative receivables declined by $18&nbsp;billion, primarily because, effective January&nbsp;1, 2004, theFirm elected to report the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities net of cash received andpaid, respectively, under legally enforceable master netting agreements. Loans, lending-relatedcommitmentsand interests in purchased receivables increased by $60&nbsp;billion, $98&nbsp;billion and $27&nbsp;billion,respectively, primarily as a result of the Merger.Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale portfolio as of December31, 2004 and 2003. The ratings scale is based on the Firm's internal risk ratings and is presentedon an S&P-equivalent basis.As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, the wholesale exposure ratings profile remained relativelystable compared with December&nbsp;31, 2003.Wholesale credit exposure &#151; selected industry concentrationThe Firm actively manages the size and diversification of its industry concentrations, withparticular attention paid to industries with actual or potential credit concerns. Following theMerger, the Firm commenced a thorough review of industry definitions and assignments in each of theheritage firm's portfolios. As a result of this review, the Firm's industry structure was modified,resulting in two new industry groups within the top-10 industry concen-trations at December&nbsp;31, 2004: Banks and finance companies (consists of the industries termedCommercial banks and Finance companies and lessors at year-end 2003) and Retail and consumerservices (previously separate industries at December&nbsp;31, 2003). The Merger resulted in increases innearly every top 10 industry concentration. Exposures to Banks and finance companies and Assetmanagers declined, primarily as a result of the Firm's election to report fair value of derivativeassets and liabilities net of cash received and paid, respectively, under legally enforceablemaster netting agreements, which affected derivative receivables. A significant portion of theFirm's derivatives portfolio is transacted with customers in these industries.&nbsp; Table of ContentsSelected industry discussionPresented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has significant exposureand which it continues to monitor because of actual or potential credit concerns.Wholesale criticized exposureExposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a rating of CCC&#043;/Caa1and lower, as defined by Standard & Poor's/Moody's. Despite the Merger, the criticized component ofthe portfolio decreased to $8.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004, from $8.9&nbsp;billion at year-end 2003.The portfolio continued to experience improvement due to debt repayments and&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.facility upgrades as a result of client recapitalizations; additional security andcollateral taken in refinancings; client upgrades from improved financial performance; grosscharge-offs; and a lack of migration of new exposures into the portfolio.Criticized exposure &#151; industry concentrationsWholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale loans) decreased fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2003, as a result of gross charge-offs of $543&nbsp;million taken during 2004. Wholesalenet charge-offs improved significantly compared with 2003, as a result of lower gross charge-offsand slightly higher recoveries. The 2004 wholesale net charge-off rate was 0.19%, comparedwith 0.97% in 2003.Although future charge-offs in the wholesale portfolio and overall credit quality are subject to uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ from historicperformance, the Firm anticipates that the wholesale provision for credit losses will be higher in2005 than it was in 2004, as the provision for credit losses moves to more normal levels overtime.Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm utilizes derivative instruments to meet the needs ofcustomers, to generate revenues through trading activities, to manage exposure to fluctuations ininterest rates, currencies and other markets and to manage its own credit risk. The Firm uses thesame credit risk management procedures as those used for traditional lending to assess and approvepotential credit exposures when entering into derivative transactions.The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the reported derivativereceivables (i.e., the MTM or fair value of the derivative contracts after taking into account theeffects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market (&#147;MTM&#148;)&nbsp; Table of ContentsThe $41 trillion of notional principal of the Firm's derivative contracts outstanding atDecember&nbsp;31, 2004, significantly exceeds the possible credit losses that could arise from suchtransactions. For most derivative transactions, the notional principal amount does not changehands; it is simply used as a reference to calculate payments. The appropriate measure of currentcredit risk is, in the Firm's view, the MTM value of the contract, which represents the cost toreplace the contracts at current market rates should the counterparty default. When JPMorgan Chasehas more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty, and a legally enforceable masternetting agreement exists with that counterparty, the netted MTM exposure, less collateral held,represents, in the Firm's view, the appropriate measure of current credit risk. At December&nbsp;31,2004, the MTM value of derivative receivables (after taking into account the effects of legallyenforceable master netting agreements and the impact of net cash received under credit supportannexes to such legally enforceable master netting agreements) was $66&nbsp;billion. Further, aftertaking into account $9&nbsp;billion of other highly liquid collateral held by the Firm, the net currentMTM credit exposure was $57&nbsp;billion.While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firm calculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related credit loss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;) andAverage exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures all incorporate netting and collateral benefits, whereapplicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculated at a 97.5% confidencelevel. However, the total potential future credit risk embedded in the Firm's derivatives portfoliois not the simple sum of all Peak client credit risks. This is because, at the portfolio level,credit risk is reduced by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separatecounterparties, only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss, even if both counterpartieswere to default simultaneously. The Firm refers to this effect as market diversification, and theMarket-Diversified Peak (&#147;MDP&#148;) measure is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,representing the maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if allcounterparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and timeframe.Derivative Risk Equivalent exposure is a measure that expresses the riskiness of derivativeexposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the riskiness of loan exposures. This is done byequating the unexpected loss in a derivative counterparty exposure (which takes into considerationboth the loss volatility and the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in aloan exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the counterparty). DRE is aless extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak and is the primary measure used by the Firmfor credit approval of derivative transactions.Finally, Average exposure is a measure of the expected MTM value of the Firm's derivativereceivables at future time periods, including the benefit of collateral. AVG exposure over thetotal life of the derivative contract is used as the primary metric for pricing purposes and isused to calculate credit capital and the Credit Valuation Adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;), as described furtherbelow.The chart below shows the exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10&nbsp;years as calculated bythe MDP, DRE and AVG metrics. All three measures generally show declining exposure after the firstyear, if no new trades were added to the portfolio.Exposure profile ofderivatives measuresDecember 31, 2004(in billions)The MTM value of the Firm's derivative receivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, toreflect the credit quality of counterparties. The CVA is based on the Firm's AVG to a counterparty,and on the counterparty's credit spread in the credit derivatives market. The primary components ofchanges in CVA are credit spreads, new deal activity or unwinds, and changes in the underlyingmarket environment. The Firm believes that active risk management is essential to controlling thedynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. The Firm risk manages its exposure to changes inCVA by entering into credit derivative transactions, as well as interest rate, foreign exchange,equity and commodity derivatives transactions. The MTM value of the Firm's derivative payables doesnot incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit quality.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's Consolidated balance sheetDerivative receivables MTM, net of cash and other highly liquid collateral, for the datesindicated:Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTMThe Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate counterparty credit riskin derivatives. The percentage of the Firm's derivatives transactions subject to collateralagreements increased slightly, to 79% as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, from 78% at December&nbsp;31, 2003. TheFirm held $41&nbsp;billion of collateral as of December&nbsp;31, 2004 (including $32&nbsp;billion of net cashreceived under credit support annexes to legally enforceable master netting agreements), comparedwith $36&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2003. The Firm posted $31&nbsp;billion of collateral as of December31, 2004, compared with $27&nbsp;billion at the end of 2003.Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require the counterpartyand/or the Firm, upon specified downgrades in their respective credit ratings, to post collateralfor the benefit of the other party. As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, the impact of a single-notch ratingsdowngrade to JPMorgan Chase Bank, from its current rating of AA- to A&#043;, would have been anadditional $1.5&nbsp;billion of collateral posted by the Firm; the impact of a six-notch ratingsdowngrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.9&nbsp;billion of additional collateral. Certainderivative contracts also provide for termination of the contract, generally upon a downgrade ofeither the Firm or the counterparty, at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.Use of credit derivativesThe following table presents the Firm's notional amounts of credit derivatives protection boughtand sold by the respective businesses as of December&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003:Credit derivatives positionsJPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit derivativestransactions. Of the $66&nbsp;billion of total Derivative receivables at December&nbsp;31, 2004,approximately $3&nbsp;billion, or 5%, was associated with credit derivatives, before the benefit ofhighly liquid collateral. The use of credit derivatives to manage exposures by the Credit PortfolioGroup does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of reportedoff-balance sheet commitments.Credit portfolio management activityIn managing its wholesale credit exposure, the Firm purchases single-name and portfolio creditderivatives. As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, the notional outstanding amount of protection bought viasingle-name and portfolio credit derivatives was $35&nbsp;billion and $2&nbsp;billion, respectively. The Firmalso diversifies its exposures by providing (i.e., selling) credit protection, which increasesexposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related exposure. Thisactivity is not material to the Firm's overall credit exposure.Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivativesThe credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for its portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, and therefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 isnot performed. These derivatives are reported at fair value, with gains and losses recognized asTrading revenue. The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and changesin value due to movement in spreads and credit events, whereas the loans and lending-relatedcommitments being risk managed are accounted for on an accrual basis. Loan interest and fees aregenerally recognized in Net interest income, and impairment is recognized in the Provision forcredit losses. This asymmetry in accounting treatment, between loans and lending-relatedcommitments and the credit derivatives utilized in portfolio management&nbsp; Table of Contentsactivities, causes earnings volatility that is not representative of the true changes in valueof the Firm's overall credit exposure. The MTM treatment of both the Firm's credit derivatives usedfor managing credit exposure (&#147;short&#148; credit positions) and the CVA, which reflects the creditquality of derivatives counterparty exposure (&#147;long&#148; credit positions), provides some naturaloffset.In 2004, there were $44&nbsp;million of losses in Trading revenue from credit portfoliomanagement activities. The losses consisted of $297&nbsp;million related to credit derivatives used tomanage the Firm's credit exposure; of this amount, $234&nbsp;million was associated with creditderivatives used to manage accrual lending activities, and $63&nbsp;million with credit derivatives usedto manage the derivatives portfolio. The losses were largely due to the ongoing cost of buyingcredit protection and some additional impact due to the global tightening of credit spreads. Theselosses were partially offset by $253&nbsp;million of gains from a decrease in the MTM value ofthe CVA, a result of the same factors.The 2003 credit portfolio management activity resulted in $191&nbsp;million of losses includedin Trading revenue. These losses included $746&nbsp;million related to credit derivatives that were usedto risk manage the Firm's credit exposure; approximately $504&nbsp;million of thisamount was associated with credit derivatives used to manage accrual lending activities, andthe remainder was primarily related to credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of MTMderivative receivables. The losses were generally driven by an overall global tightening of creditspreads. The $746&nbsp;million loss was partially offset by $555&nbsp;million of trading revenue gains,primarily related to the decrease in the MTM value of the CVA due to credit spread tightening.The Firm also actively manages its wholesale credit exposure through loan and commitment sales.During 2004 and 2003, the Firm sold $5.9&nbsp;billion and $5.2&nbsp;billion of loans and commitments,respectively, resulting in losses of $8&nbsp;million and $54&nbsp;million, respectively, in connection withthe management of its wholesale credit exposure. These activities are not related to the Firm'ssecuritization activities, which are undertaken for liquidity andbalance sheet management purposes. For a further discussion of securitization activity, see Note 13 on pages 103-106 of this Annual Report.Dealer/client activityAs of December&nbsp;31, 2004, the total notional amounts of protection purchased and sold by the dealerbusiness were $501&nbsp;billion and $532&nbsp;billion, respectively. The mismatch between these notionalamounts is attributable to the Firm selling protection on large, diversified, predominantlyinvestment-grade portfolios (including the most senior tranches) and then risk managing thesepositions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of the same portfolios. Inaddition, the Firm may use securities to risk manage certain derivative positions.Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts of credit derivatives, in the Firm'sview, the risk positions are largely matched.Lending-related commitmentsThe contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was $309&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31,2004, compared with $211&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to theMerger. In the Firm's view, the total contractual amount of these instruments is not representativeof the Firm's actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements. In determining the amount ofcredit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale lending-related commitments, which is used as thebasis for allocating credit risk capital to these instruments, the Firm has established a&#147;loan-equivalent&#148; amount for each commitment; this represents the portion of the unused commitmentor other contingent exposure that is expected, based on average portfolio historical experience, tobecome outstanding in the event of a default by an obligor. The amount of the loanequivalents as of December&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003, was $162&nbsp;billion and $104&nbsp;billion,respectively.Country exposureThe Firm has acomprehensive process for measuring and managing its exposures andrisk in emerging markets countries &#150; defined as those countriespotentially vulnerable to sovereign events. Exposures to a countryinclude all credit-related lending, trading, and investmentactivities, whether cross-border or locally funded. Exposure amountsare adjusted for credit enhancements (e.g. guarantees and letters ofcredit) provided by third parties located outside the country, if theenhancements fully cover the country risk, as well as the businessrisk. As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, the Firm's exposure to anyindividual country was not material. In addition to monitoringcountry exposures, the Firm uses stress tests to measure and managethe risk of extreme loss associated with sovereign crises.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Consumer credit portfolio&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mortgages and homeequity loans, credit cards, auto and education financings and loans to small businesses. Thedomestic consumer portfolio reflects thebenefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective. The primary focus ison serving the prime consumer credit market.The following table presents managed consumercredit-related information for the dates indicated:Consumer portfolio&nbsp; Table of ContentsTotal managed consumer loans as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, were $338&nbsp;billion, up from $174&nbsp;billionat year-end 2003, reflecting the addition of the Bank One consumer credit portfolios. Consumerlending&#150;related commitments increased by 232% to $601&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004, reflecting theimpact of the Merger. The following discussion relates to the specific loan and lending-relatedcategories within the consumer portfolio:Retail Financial ServicesAverage RFS loan balances for 2004 were $163&nbsp;billion. New loans originated in 2004 reflect highercredit quality, consistent with management's focus on the prime credit market segment. The netcharge-off rate for retail loans in 2004 was 0.67%, an increase of 27 basis points from 2003.This increase was primarily attributable to the Merger and to $406&nbsp;million of charge-offsin the fourth quarter of 2004, which were associated with the sale of the $4&nbsp;billionmanufactured home loan portfolio.Future RFS charge-offs and credit quality are subject to uncertainties which may cause actualresults to differ from current anticipated performance, including the direction and level of loandelinquencies, changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy trends, portfolio seasoning, interest ratemovements and portfolio mix, among other factors.The Firm proactively manages its retail credit operation. Ongoing efforts include continual reviewand enhancement of credit underwriting criteria and refinement of pricing and risk managementmodels.Home Finance: Home finance loans on the balance sheet as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, were $125&nbsp;billion.This consisted of $68&nbsp;billion of home equity and other loans and $57&nbsp;billion of mortgages,including mortgage loans held-for-sale. Home equity and other loans previously includedmanufactured home loans, a product the Firm stopped originating at mid-year 2004; the Firm soldsubstantially all of its manufactured home loan portfolio at the end of 2004. The $125&nbsp;billion inHome Finance receivables as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, reflects an increase of $50&nbsp;billion from year-end2003, driven by the addition of Bank One's home equity and mortgage portfolios. Home Financeprovides real estate lending to the full spectrum of creditborrowers, which included $7&nbsp;billion in sub-prime credits at December&nbsp;31, 2004. The geographic distribution of outstandingconsumer real estate loans is well diversified.Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic locationAuto & Education Finance: As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, Auto & education finance loans increased to $63billion, up from $43&nbsp;billion at year-end 2003. The acquisition of the Bank One portfolio wasresponsible for the increase. The Auto & education loan portfolio reflects a high concentration ofprime quality credits. During the past year, the Firm completed a strategic review of all consumerlending portfolio segments. This review resulted in the Firm choosing to de-emphasize vehicleleasing, which, as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, comprised $8&nbsp;billion of outstandings. It is anticipatedthat over time vehicle leases will account for a smaller share of balance sheet receivables andexposure. The strategic review also resulted in the sale of a $2&nbsp;billion recreational vehicleportfolio in early 2005.Consumer & Small Business/Insurance: As of December&nbsp;31, 2004, Small business & other consumer loansincreased to $15&nbsp;billion compared with 2003&nbsp;year-end levels of $4&nbsp;billion. This portfolio segmentis primarily comprised of loans to small businesses, and the increase reflects the acquisition ofthe Bank One small business portfolio. The portfolio reflects highly collateralized loans, oftenwith personal loan guarantees.Card ServicesJPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis, which includes credit cardreceivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those receivables sold to investors throughsecuritization. Managed credit card receivables were $135&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2004, an increaseof $83&nbsp;billion from year-end 2003, reflecting the acquisition of the Bank One portfolio.Consumer credit quality trends continue to improve overall, reflecting general economic conditionsand reduced consumer bankruptcy filings versus the prior year. The decrease in the managed creditcard net charge-off rate, to 5.27% in 2004 from 5.90% in 2003, reflected the impact of the Merger,as well as management's continued emphasis on prudent credit risk management, includingdisciplined underwriting and account management practices targeted to the prime and super-primecredit sectors. Credit Risk Management tools used to manage the level and volatility of losses forcredit card accounts have been continually updated, and, where appropriate, these tools wereadjusted to reduce credit risk. The managed credit card portfolio continues to reflect awell-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S. geographic diversification.Future charge-offs in the credit card portfolio and overall credit quality are subject touncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ from historic performance. This couldinclude the direction and level of loan delinquencies, changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcytrends, portfolio seasoning, interest rate movements and portfolio mix, among other factors. Whilecurrent economic and credit data suggest that consumer credit quality will not significantlydeteriorate, significant deterioration in the general economy could materially change theseexpectations.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Allowance for credit losses&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable creditlosses, including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or the size of the loss hasnot been fully determined. At least quarterly, the allowance for credit losses is reviewed bythe Chief Risk Officer and the Deputy Chief Risk Officer of the Firm and is discussed with a risksubgroup of the Operating Committee, relative to the risk profile of the Firm's creditportfolio and current economic conditions. The allowance is adjusted based on that review if, inmanagement's judgment, changes are warranted. The allowanceincludes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component, the latter of which consists ofa statistical calculation and adjustments to the statistical calculation. For further discussion ofthe components of the Allowance for credit losses, see Critical accounting estimates used by theFirm on page&nbsp;77 and Note&nbsp;12 on pages 102-103 of this Annual Report. At December&nbsp;31, 2004,management deemed the allowance for credit losses to be sufficient to absorb losses that areinherent in the portfolio, including losses that are not specificallyidentified or for which the size of theloss has not yet been fully determined.Summary of changes in the allowance for credit lossesOverall: The Allowance for credit losses increased by $3.0&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31,2003, to December&nbsp;31, 2004, primarily driven by the Merger. Adjustments required to conform to thecombined Firm's allowance methodology, and alignment of accounting practices related to theseller's interest in credit card securitizations, resulted in a net increase in the Provision forcredit losses of $858&nbsp;million. See Note 12 on pages 102-103 of this Annual Report.Loans: The allowance has two components: asset-specific and formula-based. As of December&nbsp;31, 2004,management deemed the allowance to be appropriate. Excluding loans held for sale, the allowancerepresented 1.94% of loans at December&nbsp;31, 2004, compared with 2.33% at year-end 2003.The wholesale component of the allowance was $3.1&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, an increase fromyear-end 2003, primarily due to the Merger. The wholesale allowance also reflected a reduction of$103&nbsp;million in the provision as a result of conforming the combined Firm's allowance methodology.The consumer component of the allowance was $4.2&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, an increase fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2003, primarily attributable to the Merger and the decertification of Bank One'sseller's retained interest in credit card securitizations. Adjustments required to conform to thecombined Firm's allowance methodology included a reduction of $192&nbsp;million in the Allowance forloan losses within RFS. Conforming the methodology within Card Services reduced the Allowance forloan losses by $62&nbsp;million.&nbsp; Table of ContentsAdditionally, in Card Services, $128&nbsp;million in allowance for accrued fees and finance chargeswas reclassified from the Allowance for loan losses to Loans.At the time of the Merger, Bank One's seller's interest in credit card securitizations was in acertificated or security form and recorded at fair value. Subsequently, a decision was made todecertificate these assets, which resulted in a reclassification of the seller's interest fromAvailable-for-sale securities to Loans, at fair value, with no allowance for credit losses.Generally, as the underlying credit card receivables represented by the seller's interest were paidoff, customers continued to use their credit cards and originate new receivables, which were thenrecorded as Loans at historical cost. As these new loans aged, it was necessary to establish anAllowance for credit losses consistent with the Firm's credit policies. During the second half of2004, approximately $1.4&nbsp;billion of the Allowance for loan losses was established through the provisionassociated with newly originated receivables related to the seller's interest.Lending-related commitments: To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the Firm's process ofextending credit, management also computes an asset-specific component and a formula-basedcomponent for wholesale lending-related commitments. These are computed using a methodology similarto that used for the wholesale loan portfolio, modified for expected maturities and probabilitiesof drawdown. This allowance, which is reported in Other liabilities, was $492&nbsp;million at December31, 2004, and reflected the impact of the Merger, partially offset by a $227&nbsp;million benefit as aresult of conforming the combined Firm's allowance methodology. The allowance was $324&nbsp;million atDecember&nbsp;31, 2003.Provision for credit lossesFor a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses, see page 23 of this AnnualReport. The managed provision for credit losses, which reflects credit card securitizations,increased primarily due to the Merger.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Market risk management&nbsp;Market risk represents the potential loss in value of portfolios and financialinstruments caused by adverse movements in market variables, such as interest and foreign exchangerates, credit spreads, and equity and commodity prices.Market risk managementMarket Risk Management (&#147;MRM&#148;) is a function independent of the businesses thatidentifies, measures, monitors, and controls market risk. It seeks tofacilitate efficient risk/return decisions and to reduce volatility in operating performance. Itstrives to make the Firm's market risk profile transparent to senior management, the Board ofDirectors and regulators.The chart below depicts the MRM organizational structure and describes the responsibilities of thegroups within MRM.There are also groups that report to the Chief Financial Officer with some responsibilityfor market risk-related activities. For example, within the Finance area, the valuation controlfunctions are responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the valuations of positions that expose theFirm to market risk.Risk identification and classificationMRM works in partnership with the business segments to identify market risks throughout theFirm, and to refine and monitor market risk policies and procedures. All business segments areresponsible for comprehensive identification and verification of market risks within their units.Risk-taking businesses have Middle Office functions that act independently from trading personneland are responsible for verifying risk exposures that the business takes. In addition to providingindependent oversight for market risk arising from the business segments, MRM is also responsiblefor identifying exposures which may not be large within individual business segments, but which maybe large for the Firm in aggregate. Weekly meetings are held between MRM and the heads ofrisk-taking businesses, to discuss and decide on risk exposures in the context of the marketenvironment and client flows.Positions that expose the Firm to market risk are classified into two categories: trading andnontrading risk. Trading risk includes positions that are held for trading purposes as a principalor as part of a business whose main business strategy is to trade or make markets. Unrealized gainsand losses in these positions are generally reported in trading revenue. Nontrading risk includessecurities held for longer term investment, and securities and derivatives used to manage theFirm's asset/liability exposures. In most cases, unrealized gains and losses in these positions areaccounted for at fair value, with the gains and losses reported in Net income or Othercomprehensive income.Trading riskFixed income: Fixed income risk (which includes credit spread risk) involves the potentialdecline in Net income or financial condition due to adverse changes in market interest rates, whichmay result in changes to NII, securities valuations, and other interest-sensitive revenues andexpenses.Foreign exchange, equities, commodities and other: These risks involve the potentialdecline in Net income to the Firm due to adverse changes in foreign exchange, equities orcommodities markets, whether due to proprietary positions taken by the Firm, or due to a decreasein the level of client activity. Other risks include passive long-term investments in numeroushedge funds that may have exposure to fixed income, foreign exchange, equity and commodity riskwithin their portfolio risk structures.Nontrading riskThe execution of the Firm's core business strategies, the delivery of products and services toits customers, and the discretionary positions the Firm undertakes to risk-manage structuralexposures give rise to interest rate risk in the nontrading activities of the Firm.&nbsp; Table of ContentsThis exposure can result from a variety of factors, including differences in the timing among thematurity or re-pricing of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments. Changes in thelevel and shape of market interest rate curves may also create interest rate risk, since there-pricing characteristics of the Firm's assets do not necessarily match those of its liabilities.The Firm is also exposed to basis risk, which is the difference in re-pricing characteristics oftwo floating rate indices, such as the prime rate and 3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of theFirm's products have embedded optionality that impact pricing and balance levels.The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on a consolidated,corporate-wide basis. Business units transfer their interest rate risk to Treasury through atransfer-pricing system, which takes into account the elements of interest rate exposure that canbe risk managed in financial markets. These elements include asset and liability balances andcontractual rates of interest, contractual principal payment schedules, expected prepaymentexperience, interest rate reset dates and maturities, rate indices used for re-pricing, and anyinterest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products. All transfer-pricing assumptions arereviewed by Treasury.The Firm's mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate risks. The interestrate exposure from the Firm's mortgage banking activities is a result of option and basis risks.Option risk arises primarily from prepayment options embedded in mortgages and changes in theprobability of newly-originated mortgage commitments actually closing. Basis risk results fromdifferent relative movements between mortgage rates and other interest rates. These risks aremanaged through programs specific to the different mortgage banking activities. Potentialimpairment in the fair value of mortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;) and increased amortizationlevels of MSRs are managed via a risk management program that attempts to offset changes in thefair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of derivatives and investment securities. Asimilar approach is used to manage the interest rate risk associated with the Firm's mortgageorigination business.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk, the Firm uses severalmeasures, both statistical and nonstatistical, including:Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase's statistical risk measure, VAR, gauges the potential loss from adverse marketmoves in an ordinary market environment and provides a consistent cross-business measure of riskprofiles and levels of risk diversification. VAR is used to compare risks across businesses, tomonitor limits and to allocate economic capital to the business segments. VAR provides risktransparency in a normal trading environment.Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation that includes both itstrading and its nontrading activities. VAR for nontrading activities measures the amount ofpotential change in economic value; however, VAR for such activities is not a measure of reportedrevenue since nontrading activities are generally not marked to market through earnings. JPMorganChase's VAR calculation is highly granular, comprising more than 2.1&nbsp;million positions and 240,000pricing series (e.g., securities prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates). For a substantialportion of its exposure, the Firm has implemented full-revaluation VAR, which, management believes,generates the most accurate results.To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historical simulation, which measures risk across instruments andportfolios in a consistent, comparable way. This approach assumes that historical changes in marketvalues are representative of future changes. The simulation is based on data for the previous 12months.The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and a 99% confidence level. This means theFirm would expect to incur losses greater than that predicted by VAR estimates only once in every100 trading days, or about 2.5 times a year.All statistical models involve a degree of uncertainty, depending on the assumptions they employ.The Firm prefers historical simulation, because it involves fewer assumptions about thedistribution of portfolio losses than parameter-based methodologies. In addition, the Firmregularly assesses the quality of the market data, since their accuracy is critical to computingVAR. Nevertheless, because VAR is based on historical market data, it may not accurately reflectfuture risk during environments in which market volatility is changing. In addition, the VARmeasure on any particular day may not be indicative of future risk levels, since positions andmarket conditions may both change over time.While VAR is a valuable tool for evaluating relative risks and aggregating risks across businesses,it only measures the potential volatility of daily revenues. Profitability and risk levels overlonger time periods &#151; a fiscal quarter or a year &#151; may be only loosely related to the average valueof VAR over those periods for several reasons. First, while VAR measures potentialfluctuations around average daily revenue, the average itself could reflect significant gains orlosses; for example, from client revenues that accompany risk-taking activities. Second, largetrading revenues may result from positions taken over longer periods of time. For example, abusiness may maintain an exposure to rising or falling interest rates over a period of weeks ormonths. If the market exhibits a long-term trend over that time, the business could experiencelarge gains or losses, even though revenue volatility on each individual day may have been small.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Trading VARIB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR(a)The largest contributors to the IB trading VAR in 2004 was fixed income risk. Beforeportfolio diversification, fixed income risk accounted for roughly 58% of the average IB TradingPortfolio VAR. The diversification effect, which on average reduced the daily average IB TradingPortfolio VAR by $43.6&nbsp;million in 2004, reflects the fact that the largest losses for differentpositions and risks do not typically occur at the same time. The risk of a portfolio of positionsis therefore usually less than the sum of the risks of the positions themselves. The degree ofdiversification is determined both by the extent to which different market variables tend to movetogether and by the extent to which different businesses have similar positions.Average IB trading and Credit Portfolio VAR during 2004 rose to $90.5&nbsp;million, compared with $69.3million for the same period in 2003. Period-end VAR decreased over the same period, to $77.7million from $101.1&nbsp;million. The decrease was driven by a decline in fixed income and equities VAR,primarily due to decreased risk positions and lower market volatility. In general, over the courseof a year, VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading positions change and market volatilityfluctuates.VAR backtestingTo evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, the Firm conducts daily backtesting of VAR againstactual financial results, based on daily market risk-related revenue. Market risk-related revenueis defined as the daily change in value of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus anytrading-related net interest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees or other revenue. TheFirm's definition of market risk-related revenue is consistent with the FRB's implementation of theBasel Committee's market risk capital rules. The histogram below illustrates the daily marketrisk-related gains and losses for the IB trading businesses for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2004.The chart shows that the IB posted market risk-related gains on 224 out of 261&nbsp;days in this period,with 12&nbsp;days exceeding $100&nbsp;million. The inset graph looks at those days on which the IBexperienced losses and depicts the amount by which VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of thosedays. Losses were sustained on 37&nbsp;days, with no loss greater than $50&nbsp;million, and with no lossexceeding the VAR measure.&nbsp; Table of ContentsEconomic value stress testingWhile VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets, stress testingcaptures the Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. Stress testingis equally important as VAR in measuring and controlling risk. Stress testing enhances theunderstanding of the Firm's risk profile and loss potential and is used for monitoring limits,cross-business risk measurement and economic capital allocation.Economic-value stress tests measure the potential change in the value of the Firm's portfolios.Applying economic-value stress tests helps the Firm understand how the economic value of itsbalance sheet (i.e., not the amounts reported under U.S. GAAP) would change under certainscenarios. The Firm conducts economic-value stress tests for both its trading and its nontradingactivities, using the same scenarios for both.The Firm stress tests its portfolios at least once a month using multiple scenarios. Severalmacroeconomic event-related scenarios are evaluated across the Firm, with shocks to roughly 10,000market prices specified for each scenario. Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominant inindividual business segments, and include scenarios that focus on the potential for adverse movesin complex portfolios.Scenarios are derived from either severe historical crises or forward assessment of developingmarket trends. They are continually reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the Firm's riskprofile and economic events. Stress-test results, trends and explanations are provided each monthto the Firm's executive management and to the lines of business to help them better measure andmanage risks to understand event risk-sensitive positions.The Firm's stress-test methodology assumes that, during an actual stress event, no managementaction would be taken to change the risk profile of portfolios. This captures the decreasedliquidity that often occurs with abnormal markets and results, in the Firm's view, in aconservative stress-test result.Based on the Firm's stress scenarios, the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB's trading portfolioranged from $202&nbsp;million to $1.2&nbsp;billion, and $227&nbsp;million to $895&nbsp;million for the years endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (The 2004 results include six months of the combinedFirm's results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results. In addition, the 2003 amountshave been revised to reflect the transfer of Treasury positions from the IB to the Corporatebusiness segment.)It is important to note that VAR results cannot be directly correlated to stress-test loss resultsfor three reasons. First, stress-test losses are calculated at varying dates each month, while VARis performed daily and reported for the period-end date. Second, VAR and stress tests are twodistinct risk measurements yielding very different loss potentials. Thus, although the same tradingportfolios are used for both tests, VAR is based on a distribution of one-day historical lossesmeasured over the most recent one year; in contrast, stress testing subjects the portfolio to moreextreme, larger moves over a longer time horizon (e.g., 2-3&nbsp;weeks). Third, as VAR and stress testsare distinct risk measurements, the impact of portfolio diversification can vary greatly. For VAR,markets can change in patterns over a one-year time horizon, moving from highly correlated to lessso; in stress testing, the focus is on a single event and the associated correlations in an extrememarket situation. As a result, while VAR over a given time horizon can be lowered by adiversification benefit in the portfolio, this benefit would not necessarily manifest itself instress-test scenarios, which assume large, coherent moves across all markets.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.RIFLEIn addition to VAR, JPMorgan Chase employs the Risk Identification for Large Exposures (&#147;RIFLE&#148;)methodology as another statistical risk measure. The Firm requires that all market risk-takingbusinesses self-assess their risks to unusual and specific events. Individuals who manage riskpositions, particularly complex positions, identify potential worst-case losses that could arisefrom an unusual or specific event, such as a potential tax change, and estimate the probabilitiesof such losses. Through the Firm's RIFLE system, this information is then directed to theappropriate level of management, thereby permitting the Firm to identify further earningsvulnerabilities not adequately covered by VAR and stress testing.Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open positions, basis pointvalues, option sensitivities, position concentrations and position turnover. These measures provideadditional information on an exposure's size and the direction in which it is moving.Nonstatistical measures are used for monitoring limits, one-off approvals and tactical control.Earnings-at-risk stress testingThe VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total economic sensitivity ofthe Firm's balance sheet to changes in market variables. The effect of interest rate exposure onreported Net income is also critical. Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm's core nontradingbusiness activities (i.e., asset/liability management positions) results from on- and off-balancesheet positions. The Firm conducts simulations of NII for its nontrading activities under a varietyof interest rate scenarios, which are consistent with the scenarios used for economic-value stresstesting. Earnings-at-risk tests measure the potential change in the Firm's Net interest income overthe next 12&nbsp;months. These tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors, such as therates themselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricing strategies on deposits, optionality andchanges in product mix. The tests included forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset salesand securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvestment behavior.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profiles as of December&nbsp;31, 2004, wereas follows:The Firm is exposed to both rising and falling rates. The Firm's risk to rising rates islargely the result of increased funding costs. In contrast, the exposure to falling rates is theresult of potential compression in deposit spreads, coupled with higher anticipated levels of loanprepayments.Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk, and so a number ofalternative scenarios are also reviewed. These scenarios include the implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks on selected key rates. These scenarios areintended to provide a comprehensive view of JPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide range ofoutcomes.Earnings-at-risk can also result from changes in the slope of the yield curve, because the Firm hasthe ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable or short-term fixed rates. Based on thesescenarios, the Firm's earnings would be negatively affected by a sudden and unanticipated increasein short-term rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates. Conversely, higherlong-term rates are generally beneficial to earnings, particularly when the increase is notaccompanied by rising short-term rates.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is primarily controlled through a series of limits. The sizes of the limits reflectthe Firm's risk appetite after extensive analysis of the market environment and business strategy.The analysis examines factors such as market volatility, product liquidity, business track record,and management experience and depth.The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level limits encompass VAR calculationsand stress-test loss advisories. Similarly, business segment levels include limits based on VARcalculations and nonstatistical measurements, and P&L loss advisories. Businesses are responsiblefor adhering to established limits, against which exposures are monitored and reported daily.Exceeded limits are reported immediately to senior management, and the affected business unit musttake appropriate action to reduce trading positions. If the business cannot do this within anacceptable timeframe, senior management is consulted on the appropriate action.MRM regularly reviews and updates risk limits, and the Firm's Operating Committee reviews andapproves risk limits at least twice a year. MRM further controls the Firm's exposure byspecifically designating approved financial instruments for each business unit.Qualitative reviewMRM also performs periodic reviews of both businesses and products with exposure to market riskin order to assess the ability of the businesses to control market risk. The businesses' managementstrategies, market conditions, product details and effectiveness of risk controls are reviewed.Specific recommendations for improvements are made to management.Model reviewMany of the Firm's financial instruments cannot be valued based on quoted market prices but areinstead valued using pricing models. Such models are used for management of risk positions, such asreporting risk against limits, as well as for valuation. A model review group, independent of thelines of business units and MRM, reviews the models the Firm uses, and assesses modelappropriateness and consistency across businesses. The model reviews consider a number of issues:appropriateness of the model, assessing the extent to which it accurately reflects thecharacteristics of the transaction and captures its significant risks; independence and reliabilityof data sources; appropriateness and adequacy of numerical algorithms; and sensitivity to inputparameters or other assumptions which cannot be priced from the market.Reviews are conducted for new or changed models, as well as previously accepted models, and theyassess whether there have been any material changes to the accepted models; whether there have beenany changes in the product or market that may impact the model's validity; and whether there aretheoretical or competitive developments that may require reassessment of the model's adequacy. Fora summary of valuations based on models, see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm onpages&nbsp;77-79 of this Annual Report.Risk reportingValue-at-risk, nonstatistical exposures and dollar trading loss limit exceptions are reporteddaily for each trading and nontrading business. Market risk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends,profit and loss changes, and portfolio concentrations are reported weekly to business managementand monthly to senior management. In addition, the results of comprehensive, monthly stress testsare presented to business and senior management.&nbsp; Table of ContentsOperational risk management&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes orsystems, human factors, or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm's businesses and support activities.Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways, including errors, business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees and vendors that do not perform in accordance with outsourcingarrangements. These events can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm,including reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a system of comprehensive policies anda control framework designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational environment. Thegoal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels, in light of the Firm's financial strength,the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject. Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing the traditional control-based approach to operational risk with risk measures, toolsand disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied andutilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.Risk identification and measurementRisk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that management believesmay give rise to operational losses.In 2004, JPMorgan Chaseredesigned the underlying architecture of its firmwide self-assessmentprocess, and began implementing the process throughout the heritage Bank One business units. Thegoal of the self-assessment process is for each business to identify the key operational risksspecific to its environment and assess the degree to which it maintains appropriate controls.Action plans are developed for control issues identified, and businesses are held accountable fortracking and resolving these issues on a timely basis.All businesses were required to perform semiannual self-assessments in 2004, which were completedby the businesses through the use of software applications developed by the Firm. Going forward,the Firm will utilize the self-assessment process as a dynamic risk management tool.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data, permitting analysis oferrors and losses as well as trends. Such analysis, performed both at a line-of-business level andby risk event type, enables identification of the causes associated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data can be supplemented with external data forcomparative analysis with industry patterns. The data reported will enable the Firm to back-testagainst self-assessment results.Risk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information to the lines ofbusiness and senior management, including information about actual operational loss levels andself-assessment results. The purpose of these reports is to enable management to maintainoperational risk at appropriate levels within each line of business, to escalate issues and toprovide consistent data aggregation across the Firm's business and support areas.During 2004, the Firm implemented Phoenix, a new internally-designed operational riskarchitecture model. Phoenix integrates the individual components of the operational risk managementframework into a unified, web-based tool. When fully implemented, Phoenix will enable the Firm toenhance its reporting and analysis of operational risk data, leading to improved risk managementand financial performance. Phoenix will also facilitate the ability of businesses to leverageexisting processes to comply with risk management-related regulatory requirements thereby leadingto increased efficiencies in the Firm's management of operational risk.For purposes of reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizes operational risk events as follows:Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an independentassessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over the Firm's operations, regulatorycompliance and reporting. Internal Audit partners with business management and members of thecontrol community in providing guidance on the operational risk framework, and reviews theeffectiveness and accuracy of the business self-assessment process as part of its business unitaudits.&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Reputation and fiduciary risk management&nbsp;A firm's success depends not only on its prudent management of liquidity, credit,market, operational and business risks, but equally on themaintenance among many constituents &#151;clients, investors, regulators, as well as the general public &#151; of a reputation for businesspractices of the highest quality.Attention to reputation has always been a key aspect of the Firm's practices, and maintenance ofreputation is the responsibility of everyone at the Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individualresponsibility in many ways: through the Code of Conduct, training, policies and oversightfunctions that approve transactions. These oversight functions include a Conflicts Office, whichexamines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of interest or role for theFirm.Policy review officeThe Firm has an additional structure to address certain transactions with clients, especiallycomplex derivatives and structured finance transactions, that have the potential to adversely affect its reputation.This structure reinforces the Firm's procedures for examiningtransactions in terms of appropriateness, ethical issues and reputational risk, and it intensifiesthe Firm's scrutiny of the purpose and effect of its transactions from the client's point of view,with the goal that these transactions not be used to mislead investors or others. The structureoperates at three levels: as part of every business's transaction approval process; through reviewby regional Policy Review Committees; and through oversight by the Policy Review Office.Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designed to address reputationrisk lies with the business units conducting the transactions in question. The Firm's transactionapproval process requires review and sign-off from, among others, internal legal/compliance,conflicts, tax and accounting groups. Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm receiveparticular scrutiny to ensure that every such entity is properly approved, documented, monitoredand controlled.Business units are also required to submit to regional Policy Review Committees proposedtransactions that may heighten reputation risk &#151; particularly aclient's motivation and its intended financial disclosure of the transaction. The committeesapprove, reject or require further clarification on or changes to the transactions. The members ofthese committees are senior representatives of the business and support units in the region. Thecommittees may escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transactions involvingreputation risk issues. The mandate of the Office is to opine on specific transactions brought bythe Regional Committees and consider changes in policies or practices relating to reputation risk.The head of the office consults with the Firm's most senior executives on specific topics andprovides regular updates. Aside from governance and guidance on specific transactions, theobjective of the policy review process is to reinforce a culture, through a &#147;case study&#148; approach,that ensures that all employees, regardless of seniority, understand the basic principles ofreputation risk control and can recognize and address issues as they arise.Fiduciary risk managementThe Firm maintains risk management committees within each of its lines of business that includein their mandate the oversight of legal, reputational and fiduciary-related risks in theirbusinesses that may produce significant losses or reputational damage. The Fiduciary RiskManagement function works with the line-of-business risk committees to ensure that businessesproviding investment or risk management products or services perform at the appropriate standardrelative to their relationship with a client, whether it be fiduciary or non-fiduciary in nature.Of particular focus are the policies and practices that address a business' responsibilities to aclient including client suitability determination, disclosure obligations, disclosurecommunications and performance expectations with respect to the investment and risk managementproducts or services being provided by the Firm. In this way, the line-of-business risk committees,together with the Fiduciary Risk Management function, provide oversight of the Firm's efforts tomonitor, measure and control the risks that may arise in the delivery of such products or servicesto clients, as well as those stemming from the Firm's responsibilities undertaken on behalf ofemployees.Private equity risk management&nbsp;Risk managementThe Firm's private equity business employs processes for risk measurement and control ofprivate equity risk that are similar to those used for other businesses within the Firm. Theprocesses are coordinated with the Firm's overall approach to market and concentration risk.Private equity risk is initially monitored through the use of industry and geographic limits.Additionally, to manage the pace of new investments, a ceiling on the amount of annual privateequity investment activity has been established. At December&nbsp;31, 2004, the carrying value of theprivate equity portfolio was $7.5&nbsp;billion.Private Equity's publicly-held securities create a significant exposure to generaldeclines in the equity markets. Initially to gauge that risk, VAR and stress-test exposures arecalculated in the same way as they are for the Firm's tradingand nontrading portfolios. However, because VAR assumes that positions can be exited in a normalmarket, JPMorgan Chase believes that the VAR for publicly-held securities does notnecessarily represent the true value-at-risk for these holdings nor is it indicative of the losspotential for these holdings, due to the fact that most of the positions are subject to salerestrictions and, often, represent significant concentration of ownership. Accordingly, PrivateEquity management undertakes frequent reviews of its publicly-held securities investmentsas part of a disciplined approach to sales and risk management issues. Risk management programs arelimited but are considered when practical and as circumstances dictate. Over time, the Firm maychange the nature and type of Private equity risk management programs it enters into.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsCritical accounting estimates used by the Firm&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to understandingits reported results. The Firm's most complex accounting estimates require management's judgment toascertain the valuation of assets and liabilities. The Firm has established detailed policies andcontrol procedures intended to ensure that valuation methods, including any judgments made as partof such methods, are well controlled, independently reviewed and applied consistently from periodto period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process forchanging methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimates fordetermining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate. The following is a briefdescription of the Firm's critical accounting estimates involving significant valuation judgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's Allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and consumer loan portfolios aswell as the Firm's portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments. The Allowance for loanlosses is intended to adjust the value of the Firm's loan assets for probable credit losses as ofthe balance sheet date. For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing theFirm's Allowance for credit losses, see Note 12 on pages 102-103 of this Annual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment.First and foremost, it involves the early identification of credits that are deteriorating. Second,it involves management judgment to derive loss factors. Third, it involves management judgment toevaluate certain macroeconomic factors, underwriting standards, and other relevant internal andexternal factors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio and to refine lossfactors to better reflect these conditions.The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its wholesale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the obligor's ability to fulfill itsobligations. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors consideredinclude the obligor's debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level of the obligor's earnings,the amount and sources for repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, management strength,and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These factors are based on anevaluation of historical and current information, and involve subjective assessment andinterpretation. Emphasizing one factor over another, or considering additional factors that may berelevant in determining the risk rating of a particular loan, but which are not currently anexplicit part of the Firm's methodology, could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to thatloan.Management applies its judgment to derive loss factors associated with each credit facility. Theseloss factors are determined by facility structure, collateral and type of obligor. Whereverpossible, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the Firm's own historical loss experiencein its models for estimating these loss factors. Many factors can affect management's estimates ofloss, including volatility of loss given default, probability of default and rating migrations.Judgment is applied to determine whether the loss given default should be calculated as an averageover the entire credit cycle or at a particular point in the credit cycle. The application ofdifferent loss given default fac-tors would change the amount of the Allowance for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.Similarly, there are judgments as to which external data on probability of default should be used,and when they should be used. Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm's specific loanportfolio characteristics could affect loss estimates.Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yetreflected in the loss factors. The resultant adjustments to the statistical calculation of losseson the performing portfolio are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experienceof both loss given default and probability of default. Factors related to concentrated anddeteriorating industries are also incorporated where relevant. The estimated ranges and thedetermination of the appropriate point within the range are based upon management's view ofuncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political conditions, quality ofunderwriting standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting thecredit quality of the current portfolio. The adjustment to the statistical calculation for thewholesale loan portfolio for the period ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, was $990&nbsp;million, the maximumamount within the range, based on management's assessment of current economic conditions.Consumer loansFor scored loans (generally consumer lines of business), loss is primarily determined by applyingstatistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type. These lossestimates are sensitive to changes in delinquency status, credit bureau scores, the realizablevalue of collateral, and other risk factors.Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzing the historicalloss experience for each major product segment. Management analyzes the range of credit lossexperienced for each major portfolio segment taking into account economic cycles, portfolioseasoning, and underwriting criteria and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant riskfactors that impact overall credit performance. The recorded adjustment to the statisticalcalculation for the period ended December&nbsp;31, 2004 was $1.0&nbsp;billion, based on management'sassessment of current economic conditions.Fair value of financial instrumentsA portion of JPMorgan Chase's assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, including tradingassets and liabilities, AFS securities and private equity investments. Held-for-sale loans andmortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;) are carried at the lower of fair value or cost. At December&nbsp;31,2004, approximately $417&nbsp;billion of the Firm's assets were recorded at fair value.The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could beexchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidationsale. The majority of the Firm's assets reported at fair value are based on quoted market prices oron internally developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters, includinginterest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrumentis dependent upon the availability of quoted market prices or observable market parameters. Forfinancial instruments that are actively traded and have quoted market prices or parameters readilyavailable,&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.&nbsp;there is little to no subjectivity in determining fair value. When observable marketprices and parameters do not exist, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Thevaluation process takes into consideration factors such as liquidity and concentration concernsand, for the derivatives portfolio, counterparty credit risk (see the discussion of CVA on page 63of this Annual Report). For example, there is often limited market data to rely on when estimatingthe fair value of a large or aged position. Similarly, judgment must be applied in estimatingprices for less readily observable external parameters. Finally, other factors such as modelassumptions, market dislocations and unexpected correlations can affect estimates of fair value.Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount of revenue or loss recorded for aparticular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfoliosSubstantially all of the Firm's securities held for trading and investment purposes (&#147;long&#148;positions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own (&#147;short&#148;positions) are valued based on quoted market prices. However, certain securities are less activelytraded and, therefore, are not always able to be valued based on quoted market prices. Thedetermination of their fair value requires management judgment, as this determination may requirebenchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing default and recovery rates. Examples includecertain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations and high-yield debt securities.As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the majority of the Firm's derivativepositions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis readily observablemarket parameters &#151; that is, parameters that are actively quoted and can be validated to externalsources, including industry-pricing services. Certain derivatives, however, are valued based onmodels with significant unobservable market parameters &#151; that is, parameters that may be estimatedand are, therefore, subject to management judgment to substantiate the model valuation. Theseinstruments are normally either less actively traded or trade activity is one-way. Examples includelong-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where swap rates may be unobservable for longermaturities, and certain credit products, where correlation and recovery rates are unobservable. Dueto the lack of observable market data, the Firm defers the initial trading profit for thesefinancial instruments. The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basisand when observable market data becomes available. Management judgment includes recording fairvalue adjustments (i.e., reductions) to model valuations to account for parameter uncertainty whenvaluing complex or less actively traded derivative transactions. The following table summarizes theFirm's trading and available-for-sale portfolios by valuation methodology at December&nbsp;31, 2004:To ensure that the valuations are appropriate, the Firm has various controls inplace. These include: an independent review and approval of valuation models; detailed review andexplanation for profit and loss analyzed daily and over time; decomposing the model valuations forcertain structured derivative instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations, wherepossible, to similar products; and validating valuation estimates through actual cash settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain derivative products becomes moretransparent, the Firm refines its valuation methodologies. The Valuation Control Group within theFinance area, a group independent of the risk-taking function, is responsible for reviewing theaccuracy of the valuations of positions taken within the Investment Bank.For a discussion of market risk management, including the model review process, see Market riskmanagement on pages 70-74 of this Annual Report. For further details regarding the Firm's valuationmethodologies, see Note 29 on pages 121-124 of this Annual Report.Loans held-for-saleThe fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio is generally based on observable marketprices of similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and loans with similarcharacteristics. If market prices are not available, fair value is based on the estimated cashflows, adjusted for credit risk that is discounted using a rate appropriate for each maturity thatincorporates the effects of interest rate changes.Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business within Corporaterequires significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, inherent lackof liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. Private investments are initially valuedbased on cost. The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect bothpositive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers. Inaddition, these investments are subject to ongoing&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of Contentsimpairment reviews by Private Equity's senior investment professionals. A variety of factors arereviewed and monitored to assess impairment including, but not limited to, operating performanceand future expectations, industry valuations of comparable public companies, changes in marketoutlook and the third-party financing environment over time. The Valuation Control Group within theFinance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values of privateinvestments held by Private Equity. For additional information about private equity investments,see the Private equity risk management discussion on page 76 and Note 9 on pages 98-100 of thisAnnual Report.MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do not trade in an active, open market with readilyobservable prices. For example, sales of MSRs do occur, but the precise terms and conditions aretypically not readily available. Accordingly, the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and certainother retained interests in securitizations using a discounted future cash flow model. For MSRs,the model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees andprepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenues, costs to serviceand other economic factors. For other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest-onlystrips), the model is generally based on projections of finance charges related to the securitizedassets, net credit losses, average life, and contractual interest paid to the third-partyinvestors. Changes in the assumptions used may have a significant impact on the Firm's valuation ofretained interests. Management believes that the fair values and related assumptions utilized inthe models are comparable to those used by other market participants. For a further discussion ofthe most significant assumptions used to value retained interests in securitizations and MSRs, aswell as the applicable stress tests for those assumptions, see Notes 13 and 15 on pages 103-106 and109-111, respectively, of this Annual Report.Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for impairment. TheFirm tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification forconducting an interim test. Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which isgenerally one level below the six major business segments identified in Note 31 on pages 126-127 ofthis Annual Report, plus Private Equity which is included in Corporate). The first part of the testis a comparison, at the reporting unit level, of the fair value of each reporting unit to itscarrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value is less than the carrying value, then thesecond part of the test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment. Theimplied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared to the carrying amountof goodwill recorded in the Firm's financial records. If the carrying value of reporting unitgoodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, then the Firm would recognize animpairment loss in the amount of the difference, which would be recorded as a charge against Netincome.The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash flow models based oneach reporting unit's internal forecasts. In addition, analysis using market-based trading andtransaction multiples, where available, are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuationsderived from the discounted cash flow models.Goodwill was not impaired as of December&nbsp;31, 2004 or December&nbsp;31, 2003, nor was any goodwillwritten off during the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2004, 2003 and2002. See Note 15 on page 109 of this Annual Report for additional information related to the nature and accounting for goodwilland the carrying values of goodwill by major business segment.&nbsp;&nbsp; Table of ContentsManagement's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Nonexchange-traded commodity contracts at fair value&nbsp;In the normal course of business, JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-traded commoditycontracts. To determine the fair value of these contracts, the Firm uses various fair valueestimation techniques, which are primarily based on internal models with significant observablemarket parameters. The Firm's nonexchange-traded commodity contracts are primarily energy-relatedcontracts. The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonexchange-tradedcommodity contracts for the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2004:The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-traded commodity contractsat December&nbsp;31, 2004:Accounting and reporting developments&nbsp;Accounting for income taxes &#151; repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004In December&nbsp;2004, the FASB issued FSP SFAS 109-2, which provides accounting and disclosure guidancefor the foreign earnings repatriation provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the&#147;Act&#148;). The Act was signed into law on October&nbsp;22, 2004.The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. companies to repatriate accumulated foreign earningsat a substantially reduced U.S. effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction onthe repatriation of certain foreign earnings to the U.S. taxpayer (the &#147;repatriation provision&#148;).The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.Clarification to key elements of the repatriation provision from Congress or the U.S. TreasuryDepartment may affect an enterprise's evaluation of the effect of the Act on its plan forrepatriation or reinvestment of foreign earnings. The FSP provides a practical exception to theSFAS 109 requirement to reflect the effect of a new tax law in the period of enactment, because ofthe lack of clarification to certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment.Thus, companies have additional time to assess the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestmentor repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS 109. A companyshould apply the provisions of SFAS 109 (i.e., reflect the tax impact in the financial statements)in the period in which it makes the decision to repatriate or reinvest unremitted foreign earningsin accordance with the Act. Decisions can be made in stages (e.g., by foreign country). Therepatriation provision is effective for either the 2004 or 2005 tax years for calendar yeartaxpayers.The range of possible amounts that may be considered for repatriation under this provision isbetween zero and $1.9&nbsp;billion. The Firm is currently assessing the impact of the repatriationprovision and, at this time, cannot reasonably estimate the related range of income tax effects ofsuch repatriation provision. Accordingly, the Firm has not reflected the tax effect of therepatriation provision in income tax expense or income tax liabilities.Accounting for share-based paymentsIn December&nbsp;2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which revises SFAS 123 and supersedes APB 25.Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally similar to the SFAS 123 approach. However,SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stockoptions, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values. Pro forma disclosureis no longer an alternative.&nbsp;&nbsp;
