 13Part IItem 2 (continued) - In the INVESTMENT BANK, trading revenues and corporate finance fees were up from the third quarter of 1999 but down from the second quarter of 2000, due to lower market volatility and trading volumes and a slowdown in leveraged finance. The cash expense growth rate of 47%, from the 1999 third quarter, was high because of the buildup of the investment banking platform, including the expense impact of recent acquisitions. - Chase's GLOBAL SERVICES, NATIONAL CONSUMER SERVICES and WEALTH MANAGEMENT businesses each achieved record results, underscoring the value of a diverse business mix.Chase's lower third quarter results were not, however, related to credit ormarket risk management issues. Credit costs decreased by 15% and 11% for thethird quarter and first nine months of 2000, respectively, when compared withthe comparable periods of 1999. Nonperforming assets at September 30, 2000 were$1.82 billion, compared with $1.90 billion at June 30, 2000 and $2.02 billion atSeptember 30, 1999. On a managed basis, including securitizations, credit costswere $541 million in the third quarter of 2000, a decline from $574 million inthe second quarter of 2000 and from $636 million in the third quarter of 1999.In relation to market risk, Chase did not experience any days in the thirdquarter of 2000 in which it suffered a trading loss.Management is taking initiatives to position Chase for higher growth in thefuture, particularly in the Investment Bank. As a result, operating expensesincreased 23% and 18% for the third quarter and first nine months of 2000,respectively, when compared with the comparable periods of 1999. However,Chase's management is committed to return to more disciplined investmentspending, particularly in the Investment Bank.During the third quarter, Chase announced it had agreed to sell its Hong Kongbased retail banking business and its 50% interest in ChaseMellon ShareholderServices. These divestitures continue Chase's long-term initiative ofdisciplined divestitures of non-strategic businesses.Merger Update: On September 13, 2000, The Chase Manhattan Corporation and J.P.Morgan & Co. Incorporated agreed to merge. The merged firm will be named J.P.Morgan Chase & Co. The merger is expected to be consummated by the first quarterof 2001, although Chase and J.P. Morgan are prepared to close by year-end 2000if they both receive the required stockholder and regulatory approvals to do so.Since the merger was announced, integration efforts have been proceedingswiftly: - Over 35 senior positions were named upon the announcement of the merger; an additional 250 key positions have been subsequently announced. - All major U.S. and foreign regulatory and antitrust applications have been filed; the joint proxy statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on October 5. On November 3, 2000, the United States Department of Justice ("DOJ") and the United States Federal Trade Commission informed Chase they had granted early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and the DOJ also informed Chase it had closed and concluded its review of the proposed merger of Chase and J.P. Morgan. - Clients are reacting favorably to the proposed merger by inviting Chase and J.P. Morgan to make joint pitches for business; the two firms have won a number of joint investment banking mandates as a result. - The framework for managing the integration is in place, with established uniform tracking tools designed to measure synergies and the tracking of systems and real estate inventories fully under way. - Management of Chase believes the amounts of the proposed cost saves and synergies originally projected to be realized in connection with the merger ($1.9 billion) are conservative. Based upon merger integration efforts to date, Chase's management currently believes those initial estimates are conservative but has not arrived at or announced revised estimates. It is anticipated that the merger will result in pre-tax costs of approximately $2.8 billion ($1.8 billion after-tax). The anticipated restructuring costs are expected to reflect severance expenses incurred in connection with anticipated staff reductions, costs incurred in connection with planned office eliminations and other merger-related expenses, including costs to eliminate redundant back office and other operations of Chase and J.P. Morgan.This Management's Discussion and Analysis contains statements that areforward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation ReformAct of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and -13-  14Part IItem 2 (continued)expectations of Chase's management and are subject to significant risks anduncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in theforward-looking statements. Factors that could cause Chase's results to differmaterially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be foundin the 1999 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Chase and in the registrationstatement on Form S-4 filed by Chase on October 5, 2000, as amended on November13, 2000, with the SEC.RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThe following section reviews Chase's results as reported in its financialstatements as well as on an operating basis. Management categorizes its revenuecomponents as either market-sensitive or less market-sensitive. For a furtherdiscussion of management's performance measurements, see page 20 of Chase's 1999Annual Report. The table below provides a reconciliation between Chase'sreported financial statements and as presented on an operating basis.(in millions, except per share data)(a) Represents the amounts that are reported in Chase's financial statements. The only exception is that revenues are categorized between market-sensitive and less market-sensitive revenues.(b) This column excludes the impact of credit card securitizations. For securitized receivables, amounts that previously would have been reported as net interest income and as provision for loan losses instead are reported as components of noninterest revenue.(c) Includes restructuring costs and special items. For a description of special items, see Glossary of Terms on page 45. -14-  15Part IItem 2 (continued)MARKET-SENSITIVE REVENUESMarket-sensitive revenues primarily are derived from the business activities ofChase's Investment Bank and Chase Capital Partners ("CCP") franchises. Therevenues from these businesses typically are more sensitive to global marketfactors than those produced by the other Chase franchises. Factors that affectmarket-sensitive revenues include movements in short-term interest rates, whichin turn affect the level of liquidity in the markets, the prices of tradablesecurities and commodities, and the near-term profitability of companies.In the third quarter of 2000, total market-sensitive revenues were 11% lowerthan the same period last year. The decline primarily reflects unrealizedmark-to-market write-downs of certain publicly held equity investments at CCP.For the nine months of 2000, market-sensitive revenues were 8% above the 1999year-to-date level. Excluding the results of CCP, market-sensitive revenueswould have been up 22% for the first nine months of 2000, due to the continuedstrength of investment banking and, to a lesser extent, trading-related revenue.For a further discussion of Chase's market-sensitive revenues, see pages 21-23of the 1999 Annual Report.INVESTMENT BANKING FEESInvestment banking remained relatively strong, with fees in the third quarterand nine months of 2000 increasing 26% and 37%, respectively, from theircomparable periods in 1999. These increases were driven by additions to Chase'sproduct platform (i.e., equity underwriting) and growth in existing products,(i.e., merger and acquisition advisory). These were partially offset by reducedindustry-wide activities in high-yield securities and complex syndicated loans.Recent acquisitions of investment banking firms are expected to position Chaseto better participate in the higher fee-generating activities (e.g., mergers andacquisitions and equity underwriting) of investment banking. The Chase H&Qacquisition improved Chase's product offerings to fast-growing New Economycompanies. Chase Flemings, with its broad network in Europe and Asia, isexpected to supplement Chase's investment banking practice in the United States.Likewise, the acquisition of The Beacon Group, LLC increased opportunities formerger and acquisition advisory deals. -15-  16Part IItem 2 (continued)TRADING-RELATED REVENUETotal trading revenues, including related net interest income, for the 2000third quarter were flat, compared with the same period last year but rose 14% to$2.57 billion for the first nine months of 2000, when compared with same 1999period. The results reflected gains in most business products, in particularequities and commodities, and foreign exchange.(a) Charge-offs for risk management instruments are included in trading revenue.(b) Trading-related net interest income includes interest recognized on interest-earning and interest-bearing trading-related positions as well as management allocations, reflecting the funding cost or benefit associated with trading positions. This amount is included in net interest income on the Consolidated Statement of Income.(c) Includes interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate futures and options, forward rate agreements and related hedges.(d) Includes foreign exchange spot and option contracts.(e) Includes equity securities, equity derivatives, commodities and commodity derivatives.(f) Includes U.S. and foreign government agency securities, corporate debt instruments, emerging markets debt instruments, debt-related derivatives and credit derivatives. - Revenue from interest rate contracts decreased 48% and 19%, respectively, in the third quarter and first nine months of 2000, when compared with the prior year's respective periods as a result of the gradual increase in domestic interest rates in 2000. The environment reduced interest rate volatility, which is a key factor in determining business volume for interest rate contracts. - Foreign exchange revenue in the third quarter of 2000 increased slightly and for the nine months increased by $128 million, due to substantial fluctuations in foreign currency values in the first half of 2000 and increased client activity. - Equities and commodities revenue increased 29% in the 2000 third quarter and 89% for the first nine months, in large part as a result of equity trading at Chase H&Q and Chase Flemings. - The debt instruments and other category recorded strong revenue for the third quarter and nine months of 2000 primarily as a result of gains in the U.S. fixed income market.SECURITIES GAINSChase's investment securities primarily are liquid securities held in connectionwith Chase's treasury activities. Chase's domestic and international treasuryunits manage Chase's asset and liability interest rate risk. Securities gainsrealized in the third quarter of 2000 were $96 million, compared with a loss of$1 million in the same 1999 period. For the nine months of 2000, gains were $167million, $7 million more than last year's year-to-date period. -16-  17Part IItem 2 (continued)PRIVATE EQUITY GAINSPrivate equity gains in the third quarter of 2000 were negative $25 million,compared with gains of $377 million in the same 1999 quarter and $298 million inthe second quarter of 2000. Gains included cash realized from the sale of bothprivate and public securities that were held in the portfolio and the unrealizedchange in the value of investments held in the portfolio, primarily publiclytraded securities. Realized (cash) gains on the sale of securities in the thirdquarter of 2000 were $538 million, more than double the amount of cash gainsrealized in the third quarter of 1999. These gains were more than offset bydeclines in the carrying values of investments (primarily in telecommunications)in the publicly held portion of the portfolio. Despite these declines, thecurrent carrying value of the investments in the publicly traded portfolio isapproximately 2.6 times their original cost.Approximately 80 percent of the carrying value of the Chase Capital Partners'portfolio consist of privately-held securities, generally carried at cost,which, in management's judgment, approximates fair value. The balance of theportfolio, which is publicly-held, is marked-to-market at the quoted publicvalue, less liquidity discounts and price averaging methodologies in certaincircumstances to take into account the fact that CCP cannot immediately realizethe publicly-quoted values due to the regulatory, corporate and contractualsales restrictions generally imposed on its holdings.Chase believes that CCP's equity-related investments will continue to createvalue for Chase, making substantial contributions to its earnings over time.Since its inception in 1984, the compound annual cash return on CCP'sinvestments has been 43%. However, given the volatile nature of the publicequities market, and that of the NASDAQ market in particular, Chase's reportedprivate equity results may include significant unrealized valuation adjustments,both favorable and unfavorable, at any given quarter. Chase has not and is notconsidering exiting the business and does not intend to spin off CCP as aseparate entity. CCP is a business with a strong track record of providingreturns to shareholders over a long period of time, more than compensating forany additional volatility it may contribute to Chase's earnings. The table belowshows the direct and fund investment components of Chase's portfolio, totaling$10.5 billion at September 30, 2000.CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOCCP also manages $11.4 billion of leveraged loan/high-yield funds andinvestments in other equity and asset funds, bringing total funds undermanagement to $21.9 billion.The level of investment by CCP continues to grow. Direct equity investments were$2.1 billion for the first nine months of 2000, compared with investments ofapproximately $1.5 billion during the comparable 1999 period. The growth ofdirect equity investments was attributable to new opportunities in severalindustry groups.The carrying values of investments recorded on Chase's financial statements arenet of interests of investors other than Chase. Certain of those investors aremanagement of Chase pursuant to co-investment limited partnerships.Additionally, CCP is in the process of offering to unaffiliated third partiesapproximately $1.5 billion in interests in CCP fund investments through separateinvestment vehicles and CCP intends to offer approximately $5 billion in limitedpartnership interests in a new investment fund that will co-invest with CCP inits direct investments. The securities being offered by CCP will not beregistered under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to registration exemptionstherefrom. These offerings, as well as other offerings CCP may make in thefuture, will have the effect of reducing Chase's proportional ownership share ofinvestments made and to be made by CCP. For a further discussion of CCP'sbusiness, visit the CCP web site at: www.chasecapital.com. -17-  18Part IItem 2 (continued)LESS MARKET-SENSITIVE REVENUELess market-sensitive revenues derive largely from Chase's National ConsumerServices, Global Services and Wealth Management franchises, as well as fromcredit products and brokerage services provided to large corporate andinstitutional clients. These revenues generally experience less marketvolatility than those Investment Bank and CCP revenues, which are characterizedas market-sensitive.Less market-sensitive revenues increased by 9% in the 2000 third quarter and by6% in the first nine months of 2000, reflecting increases in trust, custody andinvestment management fees and fees for other financial services. For a furtherdiscussion of less market-sensitive revenues, see pages 24-26 of Chase's 1999Annual Report.(a) Presented on an operating basis.NET INTEREST INCOMELess market-sensitive net interest income ("NII") on an operating basis adjustsreported NII to reflect the impact of credit card securitizations and thetrading-related NII that is considered part of market-sensitive revenue. Thefollowing table reconciles reported NII and less market-sensitive operating NII.(a) Disclosed on a taxable equivalent basis.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%. -18-  19Part IItem 2 (continued)For the third quarter and the first nine months of 2000, reported NII declined8% and 10%, respectively, when compared with each of the same periods in 1999.Operating NII declined only slightly, 1%, in each period of 2000. Reported NIIduring 2000 has been adversely affected by a decline in trading-related NII asearning assets held to support Chase's trading businesses yielded minimal netinterest income (see Trading-Related Revenue on page 16). Reported and operatingNII in 2000 were favorably impacted by higher average interest-earning assets,offset by spread compressions due to the rising interest rate environment andcompetitive pricing (notably in credit cards). Also affecting both reported andoperating NII in the nine months of 2000 was a $100 million decrease in theestimated auto lease residual value, which was accounted for as a reduction innet interest income in the first quarter of 2000. This adjustment in theestimated auto lease residual value addressed exposure to potential losses onmaturing leases as a result of a decline in the market value of autos returnedby lessees at lease termination.Managed average interest-earning assets increased 11% and 7%, respectively, fromthe 1999 third quarter and first nine months. Contributing to the increases inboth periods were higher amounts of liquid assets and commercial loans, due, inpart, to the acquisitions of Flemings and Chase H&Q. There also was an increasein domestic consumer loans (notably in residential mortgages, reflecting growthin higher-margin products such as home equity lending and new adjustable ratemortgages, which are more frequently retained in the portfolio). Partiallyoffsetting these increases was a decline in the average emerging marketcommercial loan portfolio, as Chase reduced this exposure throughout 1999.The net yield on a managed basis decreased 36 basis points in the 2000 thirdquarter and 28 basis points in the first nine months of 2000. The risinginterest rate environment which began in the second half of 1999 and competitivepricing resulted in generally narrower spreads.TRUST, CUSTODY AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEESTrust, custody and investment management fees rose to a record level of $664million in the third quarter of 2000, 22% above the 2000 second quarter (theprevious record high) and 45% above the prior year's quarter. The threeconsecutive record quarters of 2000 have resulted in a 29% increase in fees fromthe 1999 first nine months, resulting in record levels for these businesses.These results were attributable to growth in the value of funds under investmentmanagement and securities under custody, increase in flows of investments toforeign markets (where the safekeeping of securities is most profitable), andthe impact of newly acquired businesses, notably Flemings.(a) Represents fees for trustee, agency, registrar, securities-lending and broker clearing, custody and maintenance of securities.(b) Represents fees for trustee, estate, custody, advisory and investment management services.(c) Represents investment management, administrative, custody and other fees in connection with Chase's proprietary global mutual funds.The following table shows the growth in Chase's assets under custody and undermanagement.(a) Reflects approximately $88 billion in assets under management from Flemings. -19-  20Part IItem 2 (continued)CREDIT CARD REVENUECredit card revenue includes interchange income; late, cash advance, annual andoverlimit fees; and servicing fees associated with the securitization of creditcards. Credit card revenue on an operating basis remained relatively stable fromboth the third quarter and nine months of 1999 but was up $19 million from thesecond quarter of 2000 as a result of the seasonal increase in fees during thevacation and back-to-school periods. The declines in late fees in 2000, whencompared with their corresponding periods in 1999, reflect a reduction incustomer delinquencies as demonstrated by a more than 50 bp improvement in themanaged net charge-off ratios for both periods. These were offset by an increasein interchange income (transaction processing fees) associated with highercustomer purchase volumes.The following table reconciles Chase's reported credit card revenue andoperating credit card revenue, which excludes the impact of credit cardsecuritizations.FEES FOR OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICESFees for other financial services in the third quarter of 2000 increased 22%,when compared with the same period in the prior year. In the first nine monthsof 2000, the fees grew by 24% relative to 1999. The table below provides thesignificant components of fees for other financial services.BROKERAGE AND INVESTMENT SERVICES rose 249% from the 1999 third quarter and 145%from the nine months of 1999. The increases were mainly due to the acquisitionsof Flemings in August 2000 and H&Q in December 1999, significantlyincreasing the volume of Chase's brokerage activities and investment servicefees associated with the sale of mutual funds to clients. In addition, both thedaily trading volume and the number of new customers at Brown & Co. increased.Trading volume at Brown & Co. in the third quarter of 2000 was up to 41,000trades per day, compared with 32,000 trades per day in the same quarter of 1999.MORTGAGE SERVICING FEES in the 2000 third quarter and nine months increased by46% and 77%, respectively, from the same periods in 1999. The increases were dueto a larger average servicing portfolio, resulting from the Mellon BankCorporation mortgage business acquisition, and a lower amortization rate onmortgage servicing rights. Mortgage interest rates were higher in 2000,reducing the prepayment rates on mortgage loans, which, in turn, lowered theamortization expense (contra revenue) linked to the mortgage servicing rights.The average servicing portfolio increased 28% from last year's third quarter asa result of continued strong replenishment through originations andacquisitions, and a lower level of loan prepayments in the core portfolio. -20-  21Part IItem 2 (continued)FEES IN LIEU OF COMPENSATING BALANCES decreased 24% from the 1999 third quarterand 11% from the first nine months of 1999, partly attributable to a greaternumber of customers who maintain the required deposit account balances tocompensate for utilization of certain bank services.INSURANCE FEES include fees from credit-related products (such as insuring thepayment of credit card, mortgage and auto loans in the event of loss of life,disability and other catastrophic events) as well as from non-credit-relatedproducts (such as life, health and property insurance, and annuities). Insurancefees in 2000 were 32% higher than the 1999 third quarter and 24% higher than the1999 first nine months, primarily due to new business related to life, healthand mortgage insurance, plus the inclusion of Chase Flemings.OTHER FEES in 2000 increased 19% from the 1999 third quarter and 16% from thenine months of 1999, reflecting higher interchange fees related to a largervolume of debit card transactions and a general increase in the otherfee-generating activities at several businesses.OTHER REVENUERESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE ACTIVITIES (which include origination and sales of loansand selective dispositions of mortgage servicing rights) in both the thirdquarter and first nine months of 2000 declined 47% and 51%, respectively,reflecting lower origination and loan sale volume as well as gains from salesof mortgage servicing rights in the 1999 third quarter.ALL OTHER REVENUE was 86% higher in the third quarter of this year, comparedwith the same period in 1999 and 29% higher than the first nine months of 1999,reflecting an increase in revenues from auto operating leases (due to leasevolume increases in 2000), higher joint venture equity income and general assetsales. These were partly offset by a gain in the 1999 third quarter on the saleof upstate New York branches.Special items not included in operating results for the 2000 third quarter andnine month periods include losses of $35 million and $176 million, respectively,resulting from the economic hedge of the purchase price of Flemings prior to itsacquisition (the offsetting appreciation in the dollar versus pound sterlingexchange rate was reflected as a reduction in the purchase price andcorresponding goodwill). Results for the 2000 third quarter and nine monthsreflect a gain of $81 million on the sale of the Panama branch while items forthe nine months in 1999 included $166 million of gains on sales of nonstrategicassets, of which $95 million was from the sale of a building and $71 million wasfrom the sale of branches in Texas. -21-  22Part IItem 2 (continued)NONINTEREST EXPENSETotal operating noninterest expenses increased 23% in the third quarter of 2000and 18% in the nine months of 2000, when compared with the same periods in 1999.These increases reflected higher investments in resources to build up theplatform of the Investment Bank, including through the acquisitions of Flemingsand Beacon in the third quarter of 2000 and H&Q in late 1999.Reported noninterest expense for 2000 included $129 million ($79 million in the2000 third quarter) of nonaccruable restructuring costs associated withpreviously announced relocation programs. Reported noninterest expense for 1999included a special contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation.(a) Excludes costs associated with REIT and the impact of credit card securitizations.(b) Excludes the impact of amortization of goodwill and certain other intangibles.SALARIES AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITSThe increases in salaries and employee benefits from the third quarter and ninemonths of 1999 were due to a more competitive recruiting environment for talentas well as higher incentives, partly driven by growth in investment bankingrevenue and retention bonus accruals for key personnel of the recently acquiredfirms. The higher headcount as shown below reflects the additions from ChaseFlemings (more than 7,000) and Chase H&Q (approximately 1,000).OCCUPANCY AND EQUIPMENT EXPENSEOccupancy expense increased over both 1999 periods, primarily due to theadditional leasing costs of office spaces occupied by Chase Flemings and ChaseH&Q. Equipment expense also rose in both periods of 2000 as a result of higherdepreciation expense related to the capitalization of more advanced hardwaresystems and software applications as well as higher software investments tosupport the ongoing internet projects throughout the various business franchisesof Chase. Also contributing to the increase were the additional expenses atChase Flemings and Chase H&Q.OTHER EXPENSEOperating other expense (excluding the special contribution to The ChaseManhattan Foundation) rose 28% from the third quarter of 1999 and 18% from thenine months of 1999. The following table presents the components of otherexpense. -22-  23Part IItem 2 (continued)(a) Includes REIT minority interest expense of $11 million in each quarter and$33 million in each nine months.The increases in PROFESSIONAL SERVICES for the third quarter and nine months of2000 were attributable to the additions from the recently acquired firms as wellas expenditures for the Chase.com initiatives and projects to improve theprocess of safekeeping securities. The spending on the above-mentioned projectswas partly offset by reduced expenditures related to completed Y2K efforts.MARKETING EXPENSE increased in both periods of 2000 mainly as a result of ChaseFlemings and higher expenses for the credit card campaigns. TELECOMMUNICATIONSrose due to higher market data usage stemming from growth in business volume atChase's Investment Bank and the additions from the recent acquisitions.AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES was higher in connection with the acquisitions ofFlemings, Beacon and Chase H&Q. TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT increased as a resultof a rise in business-related air travel at the Investment Bank as well as theadditions from Chase Flemings and Chase H&Q. ALL OTHER expense rose due tohigher employee-related expenses across the corporation and the impact of ChaseFlemings and Chase H&Q.RESTRUCTURING COSTSIn the 1999 fourth quarter, Chase began a process of long-term strategicrestructuring initiatives, such as the announced relocation of operations tolower cost locations, and other business initiatives, for example theconsolidation of operations. Chase incurred a $175 million restructuring chargein connection with these initiatives. For a further discussion of Chase'srestructuring costs, refer to Note 12 and page 28 of Chase's 1999 Annual Reportand Note 5 of this Form 10-Q.Chase is continuing to focus on its future expense management. Further businessrealignments and relocation initiatives will be announced in conjunction withthe J.P. Morgan merger integration.CREDIT COSTSCredit costs include credit losses related to Chase's securitized credit cardloans. The following table shows the components of credit costs.Credit costs in the third quarter and nine months of 2000 decreased $95 millionand $209 million, respectively, from the 1999 levels, primarily due to theimpact of lower credit losses in the consumer portfolio, mainly credit cards,and the foreign commercial portfolio. See page 33 for the discussion of theallowance for credit losses.INCOME TAXESChase recognized income tax expense of $476 million in the third quarter of2000, compared with $625 million in the third quarter of 1999. For the firstnine months of 2000, Chase recorded income tax expense of $1.8 billion, comparedwith $2.0 billion for the nine months of 1999. The effective tax rates were35.0% in both the 2000 third quarter and first nine months, compared with 34.5%in the 1999 third quarter and 35.2% for the 1999 nine months. -23-  24Part IItem 2 (continued)LINES OF BUSINESS RESULTSThe table below provides summary financial information on an operating basis forChase's five major business franchises. Prior periods have been restated toreflect changes to the management organization or refinements in managementreporting policies. For example, commencing with the second quarter of 2000,results for Chase Capital Partners were disclosed separately from the remainderof the Global Bank, and the private equity business of Chase H&Q was moved toCCP from Global Investment Banking. Additionally, beginning with the thirdquarter of 2000, the remainder of the Global Bank has been reorganized into theInvestment Bank (Global Markets, Investment Banking and Corporate Lending) andWealth Management (Global Private Bank and Asset Management).For a description of the basis of presentation that management uses to measureand evaluate business unit profitability, see page 20 of the 1999 Annual Report.(a) Total column includes Support Units, Corporate and the net effect of management accounting policies.(b) Cash Operating Earnings represent operating earnings excluding the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangibles.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.NM - Not meaningful. -24-  25Part IItem 2 (continued)INVESTMENT BANKInvestment Bank combines the strengths of a leading commercial bank and aleading investment bank to meet the needs of corporations, institutionalinvestors, financial institutions and governments around the world. TheInvestment Bank integrates a broad range of leading product capabilities,industry knowledge and geographic reach to produce superior customer solutions.Through its presence in more than 50 countries, the Investment Bank serves anextensive array of clients, from large corporations with long-standinginvestment relationships to a growing franchise of clients in the fastestgrowing sectors of the New Economy.In the Investment Bank, cash expense growth for the 2000 third quarter exceededoperating revenue growth, resulting in a decline in cash operating earnings of9%, when compared with the third quarter of 1999. Cash expenses of $1.26 billionin the third quarter of 2000 were up 47% from the 1999 third quarter andincreased from $1.06 billion in the second quarter of 2000. The increases weredriven by acquisitions and spending to build up the investment banking platform.Management is committed to achieving a better balance of expense-to-revenuegrowth in the Investment Bank. Shareholder Value Added declined 67% from thethird quarter of 1999, reflecting both the decrease in cash operating earningsand the higher capital allocated to the Investment Bank to support acquisitions(Flemings, Beacon and H&Q). For the first nine months of 2000, operatingrevenues increased 14%, while cash expense growth was 36%, resulting in adecline in cash operating earnings of 1%. Shareholder Value Added for the firstnine months of 2000 declined 8% reflecting the higher capital allocation. For afurther discussion of the Investment Bank's products, see the Revenue sectionbeginning on page 15.The following table sets forth certain key financial performance measures of thebusinesses within the Investment Bank.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.NM - Not meaningful.For a discussion of the profiles for each business within the Investment Bank,see page 31 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report. The following discussion focuses onthe financial highlights of each business for the third quarter and first ninemonths of 2000. -25-  26Part IItem 2 (continued)GLOBAL MARKETSOperating revenues for Global Markets remained strong during 2000, althoughslightly lower than in the third quarter and the first nine months of 1999.Total trading revenues, including related net interest income, were $680 millionin the third quarter of 2000, compared with $679 million in the third quarter of1999. Gains in debt, equity and foreign exchange trading were offset by adecline in interest rate derivatives, due to slower trading activity and anoverall decline in market volatility, which adversely affected the flows andspreads of that business. Total trading revenues rose 14% to $2.6 billion forthe first nine months of 2000, driven by foreign exchange and equity andcommodities trading. Cash operating earnings decreased 35% in the 2000 thirdquarter and declined 17% for the first nine months of 2000, due to higherincentives and increased investment in the Global Markets business.Chase's treasury businesses are managed through a "total return" discipline,which measures economic value-added by capturing both realized income(securities gains and net interest income) and unrealized gains or losses onassets and liabilities. The total return (pre-tax before expenses) from theinterest rate risk management activities of the treasury units amounted to $125million for the third quarter 2000 and $651 million for the nine months of 2000,compared with $(13) million and $227 million, respectively, for the same periodsin 1999.GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKRevenues for the Global Investment Bank increased 54% from the 1999 thirdquarter. However, as a result of significantly higher cash expenses, cashoperating earnings declined 15% in the 2000 third quarter, when compared withthe 1999 third quarter. As a result of the strong results of the first half of2000, revenues and cash operating earnings rose 75% and 55%, respectively, inthe first nine months of 2000 when compared with the first nine months of 1999.The revenue increases were driven by record merger and acquisition advisory feesand equity underwriting fees. They were partially offset by lower loansyndication and high yield securities underwriting fees resulting from aslowdown in the leveraged finance markets. Cash operating earnings wereadversely affected in each period of 2000 by higher expenses driven byacquisitions and spending to build up the investment banking platform.CORPORATE LENDING AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENTCorporate Lending and Portfolio Management revenues and cash operating earningseach remained relatively stable in the third quarter and nine months of 2000,when compared with the same periods in 1999. The effect of lower average loanlevels (due to loan sales and securitizations) were offset by higherlending-related fees.CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERSChase Capital Partners is one of the world's largest and most diversifiedprivate equity investment firms with approximately $10.5 billion in direct andfund investments. In addition, CCP manages approximately $11.4 billion ofleveraged loan/high-yield funds and investments in other equity and asset funds,bringing total funds under management to approximately $21.9 billion.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.NM - Not meaningful.Operating revenues, cash operating earnings and SVA each were in a negativeposition in the 2000 third quarter, primarily a result of unrealized write-downsof the carrying values of publicly-held securities in the portfolio (primarilytelecommunication securities). Publicly-held securities comprise approximately20% of the total portfolio at September 30, 2000. Revenues and cash operatingearnings declined 46% and 59%, respectively, in the first nine months of 2000,principally due to the market declines during the 2000 third quarter, partiallyoffset by cash gains from the sales of securities. For a further discussion ofCCP's revenues and investment portfolio, see page 17. -26-  27Part IItem 2 (continued)GLOBAL SERVICESGlobal Services is a recognized leader in information and transaction processingservices, moving trillions of dollars daily in securities and cash for itswholesale customers. For a discussion of the profiles for each business withinGlobal Services, see page 34 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.In the third quarter of 2000, Global Services' operating revenues increased 9%over the prior-year quarter to $875 million, reflecting increased activity inits securities businesses. Cash operating earnings for Global Services for thethird quarter of 2000 increased 24%, when compared with the 1999 third quarter.Shareholder Value Added increased to $93 million, an 82% increase over the prioryear quarter. For the nine months of 2000, operating revenues, cash operatingearnings and Shareholder Value Added increased 13%, 26% and 118%, respectively. - Global Investor Services, Chase's custody business, experienced a 14% and 20% rise in operating revenues in the third quarter and first nine months of 2000, respectively, when compared with the same periods a year ago. These increases reflect net asset growth and higher transaction volume. During the 2000 third quarter, total assets under custody grew 16%, while the higher margin cross-border assets under custody increased 20%, when compared with the 1999 third quarter. - Operating revenues at Capital Markets Fiduciary Services, Chase's institutional trust business, increased 20% from both the 1999 third quarter and 1999 first nine months results, reflecting continued growth through expansion into new markets and growth in structured and collateral management products, particularly in Texas and the U.K. - Operating revenues at Chase Treasury Solutions, Chase's cash management and payments business, increased 2% in the 2000 third quarter and increased 4% in the first nine months of 2000, when compared with the prior-year periods, reflecting higher revenues from all products, rising interest rates, and increased balances maintained by customers, partially offset by the repositioning of the trade finance business. Operating leverage continues to improve through aggressive expense control, contributing to a significant improvement in SVA.Management anticipates that Global Services will realize double-digit incomegrowth over the remainder of the year, as a result of improved efficiencies andgrowth in market share in a consolidating industry.WEALTH MANAGEMENTChase's Wealth Management businesses include private banking and assetmanagement. Operating revenues and cash operating earnings were up 76% and 116%,respectively, from the 1999 third quarter, and increased 52% and 97%,respectively, from the first nine months of 1999. Flemings results are includedfor two months, contributing to the revenue increases; however, expenses willalso be higher this year and next year as a result of the amortization of thecost of retention bonuses entered into in connection with the Flemingsacquisition. SVA was negative in the 2000 third quarter, reflecting the highercapital allocation for Flemings.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%. - Revenues from the Global Private Bank increased to $305 million, up 36% from the third quarter of 1999. These results reflect broad-based global growth. Cash operating earnings grew 16%, compared with the prior-year quarter. As of September 30, 2000, the Global Private Bank had more than $180 billion in client assets (of which approximately $62 billion were assets under management). -27-  28Part IItem 2 (continued) - Revenues from Asset Management increased to $165 million, compared with $43 million in the third quarter of 1999. These results include revenues from Flemings. As of September 30, 2000, assets under management were $182 billion.NATIONAL CONSUMER SERVICESNational Consumer Services serves over 30 million customers nationwide, offeringa wide variety of financial products and services through a diverse array ofdistribution channels. NCS is focused on delivering financial solutions toconsumers, as well as middle market and small businesses, across the U.S.Financial solutions are delivered through distribution channels that includeinternet banking, branch and ATM networks, telephone and direct mail.Operating revenues for National Consumer Services increased to $2.6 billion, anincrease of 3% over the third quarter of 1999. Cash operating earnings of $492million increased by 13% for the third quarter of 2000. All five businesseswithin NCS reported double-digit cash operating earnings growth.NCS' operating revenues for the first nine months of 2000 were relatively flat,when compared with the nine months of 1999; cash operating earnings were 3%higher than the same period in 1999, reflecting the benefits of expensemanagement and good credit quality. The first quarter of 2000 included a $100million decrease in auto lease residual values, which was accounted for as areduction in net interest income.The following table sets forth certain key financial performance measures of thebusinesses within NCS.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.NM - Not meaningful.For a discussion of the profiles for each business within NCS, see page 33 ofChase's 1999 Annual Report. The following discussion focuses on the 2000 thirdquarter and nine months financial highlights of each business. -28-  29CHASE CARDMEMBER SERVICESCash operating earnings for Chase Cardmember Services for the thirdquarter of 2000 were up 14%, when compared with the third quarter of 1999,reflecting significantly improved credit quality. Operating revenues essentiallywere flat from the prior year quarter as higher consumer purchase volume andhigher fee-based revenues offset the impact of higher interest rates and a lowerlevel of late fees. Expenses were up, reflecting the impact of higher marketingspending. New account acquisitions were significantly higher in the thirdquarter of 2000, and credit card outstandings were more than $1 billion higherthan in the second quarter of this year.REGIONAL BANKING GROUPRegional Banking Group revenues rose 7% from the third quarter of 1999, and cashoperating earnings grew by 36%, with similar increases in revenues and cashoperating earnings from the nine months of 1999. These increases reflectedhigher deposit levels in consumer banking and the small business sector, thebenefit from higher interest rates, growth in fees (banking, debit card andbrokerage) and disciplined expense management.CHASE HOME FINANCEChase Home Finance revenues increased 13% for both the third quarter and firstnine months of 2000. Cash operating earnings rose 21%, when compared with the1999 third quarter and increased 10%, when compared with the first nine monthsof 1999. Growth in servicing fee income for both 2000 periods and gains onsecurities used to hedge mortgage servicing rights were partially offset bydeclines in residential mortgage warehouse activity. Origination volume declinedin the first nine months of 2000, when compared with the 1999 level as a resultof the rising interest rate environment. Originations (residential, home equityand manufactured housing) for the third quarter and first nine months of 2000were $20.5 billion and $53.9 billion, respectively, and included originationsfrom the retail, wholesale and correspondent (traditional and negotiated)channels.DIVERSIFIED CONSUMER SERVICESDiversified Consumer Services cash operating earnings were up 24%, and revenuesincreased 5% from the same 1999 quarter. Income growth was positively affectedby a change in internal cost allocation as well as improving auto originationvolumes and growth in the discount brokerage business, and was negativelyaffected by the impact of higher interest rates. As a result of a $100 milliondecrease in the estimated auto lease residual value in the 2000 first quarter,operating revenues and cash operating earnings declined 11% and 44%,respectively, in the first nine months of 2000, when compared with the firstnine months of 1999. Revenues from the discount brokerage business rose to $171million for the first nine months of 2000, a 42% increase, when compared withthe same period last year.MIDDLE MARKETSMiddle Markets revenues were $274 million, an increase of 4% from the thirdquarter of 1999, and were $811 million, an increase of 6% from the nine monthsof 1999. Cash operating earnings increased 13% over the prior-year quarter and15% over the prior-year first nine months. These results reflect disciplinedexpense management, continued strength in new business and financing activitiesduring 2000, and higher deposit volumes and spreads.SUPPORT UNITS AND CORPORATESupport Units include Chase.com, Chase Business Services and TechnologySolutions. For a further discussion of the business profile of these supportunits, see page 35 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.Corporate includes the effects remaining at the corporate level after theimplementation of management accounting policies. For the third quarters of 2000and 1999, Support Units and Corporate had cash operating earnings of $6 millionand $34 million, respectively. For the first nine months of 2000 and 1999, therewas a cash operating loss of $(5) million and $(7) million, respectively, forthese units. Chase utilizes an internal expense allocation process that alignsthe cost of each of its operational and staff support services with therespective revenue-generating business. This allows Chase to evaluate theperformance of each of its businesses on a fully allocated basis. -29-  30CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's credit risk management focuses primarily ondevelopments since December 31, 1999 and should be read in conjunction withpages 37-44 and 62-64 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.The following table presents Chase's credit-related information for the datesindicated.(a) Represents the portion of Chase's credit card receivables that have been securitized.(b) Includes currently performing loans placed on a cash basis because of concerns as to collectibility.(c) Charge-offs for risk management instruments are included in trading revenue. -30-  31Part IItem 2(continued) Chase's managed credit-related assets of $241 billion at September 30, 2000increased 6%, compared with year-end 1999. Commercial loans rose $9.9 billion,notably in the foreign commercial loan portfolio (primarily as a result of theacquisition of Flemings). Consumer managed credit-related assets increased $5.3billion, largely in the 1-4 family residential mortgage portfolio, whilederivative and foreign exchange instruments declined $1.7 billion. Chase'scredit-related portfolio is balanced between commercial and consumer assets,with consumer assets comprising approximately 46% of Chase's managedcredit-related portfolio. The credit quality of Chase's commercialcredit-related assets, including derivative and foreign exchange instruments,remains strong. The portion of the commercial portfolio considered investmentgrade was 55% at September 30, 2000, up from 54% at December 31, 1999.Management currently believes that Chase's nonperforming assets at December 31,2000 will be approximately at the same level as December 31, 1999.Net charge-offs in the managed portfolio were $541 million in the third quarterof 2000, a decline of $92 million from the third quarter of 1999, reflectingdecreases in net charge-offs in the managed credit card portfolio. The FederalFinancial Institutions Examination Council ("FFIEC") has adopted a policystatement on the classification of consumer loans. The revised policyestablishes uniform guidelines for the charge-off of consumer loans todelinquent, bankrupt, deceased and fraudulent borrowers. Chase intends toimplement this policy during the fourth quarter of 2000; as a result, Chaseanticipates that there will be a temporary increase in its consumer netcharge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2000. Absent the effects of the adoptionof this policy, management expects that credit costs, on a managed basis, willremain relatively stable over the remainder of 2000 and that total credit costsfor 2000 will be lower than in 1999. Over time, Chase expects annual commercialnet charge-offs to be in a range of 40-60 bp of loans. For full-year 2000,management expects commercial net charge-offs will be near the lower end of thatrange.AVERAGE ANNUAL NET CHARGE-OFF RATES(a) Includes domestic and foreign consumer and commercial credit card activity.(b) Includes foreign loans.CONSUMER LOANSChase's consumer portfolio is primarily domestic and is geographicallywell-diversified. Chase's managed consumer portfolio totaled $111 billion atSeptember 30, 2000, an increase of $5.3 billion since year-end. Consumer netcharge-offs, on a managed basis, were $476 million and $1,482 million for thethird quarter and first nine months of 2000, respectively, compared with $531million and $1,641 million, respectively, for the same periods of 1999,primarily reflecting a decline in credit card net charge-offs. Managementanticipates credit quality in the consumer portfolio to remain stable over theremainder of the year, although there will be a temporary increase in consumernet charge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2000 as a result of the adoption ofthe FFIEC policy noted above.RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS: Residential mortgage loans were $48.9 billion atSeptember 30, 2000, a $4.6 billion increase from year-end balances, while thelevel of nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased 5%. The loss ratesof .06% for the third quarter of 2000 and .07% for the first nine months of 2000reflect the continued strong credit quality of this portfolio. Residentialmortgage loans have increased since year-end due to a higher level of newadjustable rate mortgages (which are more frequently retained in the portfolio),representing a greater proportion of total new originations (as borrowers morefrequently select adjustable rate mortgages in an increasing interest rateenvironment). -31-  32Part IItem 2 (continued)CREDIT CARD LOANS: Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a "managedbasis," which includes credit card receivables on the balance sheet as well ascredit card receivables that have been securitized. The amounts discussed belowinclude domestic and international consumer and commercial credit card activity(for reporting purposes, commercial credit cards are reported within thecommercial loan category).Average managed credit card receivables of $32.9 billion for the third quarterof 2000 were relatively flat, when compared with the same period of 1999. Duringthe 2000 third quarter, net charge-offs as a percentage of average credit cardreceivables decreased to 4.97%, compared with 5.53% in the prior-year period.Loans over 90 days past due dropped to 1.80% of the portfolio at September 30,2000, compared with 1.87% at December 31, 1999. Management anticipates that themanaged credit card net charge-off ratio for the full-year 2000 will be lowerthan full-year 1999 notwithstanding the anticipated increase from adoption ofthe FFIEC policy noted above.AUTO FINANCINGS: Auto financings outstanding increased 8% at September 30, 2000,when compared with year-end 1999. The charge-off rate of .41% for the 2000 thirdquarter is indicative of this portfolio's selective approach to assetorigination. Total originations were $8.7 billion for the nine months of 2000,compared with $9.2 billion for the same 1999 period.OTHER CONSUMER LOANS: The level of other domestic consumer loans of $6.9 billionat September 30, 2000 remained comparable with year-end levels. Net charge-offsrelated to the portfolio decreased in both the third quarter and first ninemonths of 2000. The decrease in net charge-offs reflects the sale in late 1999of an underperforming segment of a secured portfolio.COMMERCIAL LOANSLoan outstandings for Chase's commercial portfolio increased $9.9 billion sinceyear-end, primarily due to the acquisition of Flemings, which contributedapproximately $6.7 billion in commercial loans. Commercial net charge-offs inthe third quarter of 2000 were $65 million, compared with $102 million in thethird quarter of 1999. For the first nine months of 2000, commercial netcharge-offs were $229 million, compared with $275 million for the same 1999period.COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL: The domestic commercial and industrial portfolioincreased $1.2 billion from 1999 year-end, reflecting general business activity.Net charge-offs in the 2000 third quarter amounted to $64 million, compared with$57 million in the 1999 third quarter. Nonperforming domestic commercial andindustrial loans were $571 million, an increase of $191 million from the 1999year-end as a result of loans with several borrowers in different industriesbecoming nonperforming during the year. The foreign commercial and industrialportfolio totaled $30.9 billion at September 30, 2000, an increase of 23% fromthe 1999 year-end level, primarily as a result of the acquisition of Flemings.Nonperforming foreign commercial and industrial loans were $586 million, adecrease of $56 million from year-end 1999. Net charge-offs in the foreigncommercial and industrial loan portfolio for the third quarter of 2000 decreasedto $4 million, or by 86%, from the same period in 1999.COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: Commercial real estate loans decreased $0.5 billion from1999 year-end levels, principally as a result of securitizations, sales andrepayments.FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS: Loans to financial institutions increased $4.3 billionduring 2000, when compared with year-end, primarily in the domestic portion ofthe portfolio. Nonperforming financial institution loans decreased 72% to $30million, primarily due to one counterparty in the foreign portfolio returning toperforming status.FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS: Foreign government loans were $2.5 billion at September 30,2000, a $0.8 billion decrease from year-end levels. Nonperforming foreigngovernment loans decreased to $36 million, or by 12%, from 1999 year-end levels.DERIVATIVE AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTSFor a discussion of the derivative and foreign exchange contracts utilized inconnection with Chase's trading and A/L activities, see page 42 and Notes 1 and19 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report. The following table provides the remainingmaturities of derivative and foreign exchange contracts outstanding at September30, 2000 and December 31, 1999. -32-  33Part IItem 2 (continued)CROSS-BORDER EXPOSUREThe following table presents Chase's exposure to emerging Latin America andAsia. Cross-border disclosure is based on FFIEC guidelines governing thedetermination of cross-border risk. For a further discussion of Chase's countryexposure, see page 43 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.SELECTED COUNTRY EXPOSURE (a)(a) Cross-border disclosure is based on FFIEC guidelines governing the determination of cross-border risk. Under FFIEC guidelines, resale agreements are reported by the country of the issuer of the underlying security. Chase, however, does not consider the cross-border risk of resale agreements to depend upon the country of the issuer of the underlying security and, as a result, has presented these amounts separately in the above table.(b) Includes loans and accrued interest receivable, interest-bearing deposits with banks, acceptances, other monetary assets, issued letters of credit and undrawn commitments to extend credit.(c) Includes cross-border trading debt and equity instruments and the mark-to-market exposure of foreign exchange and derivative contracts. The amounts associated with foreign exchange and derivative contracts are presented after taking into account the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements.(d) Excludes Bermuda and Cayman Islands.(e) Excludes Japan, Australia and New Zealand.(f) The increase in the net cross-border exposure since year-end is due to the acquisition of Flemings.ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSESLoans: Chase's allowance for loan losses is intended to cover probable creditlosses as of September 30, 2000 for which either the asset is not specificallyidentified or the size of the loss has not been fully determined. Within theallowance, there are both specific and expected loss components as well as aportfolio segment and a residual component. For a further discussion of thespecific, expected, portfolio segment and residual components of the allowancefor loan losses, see page 44 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.September 30, 2000 versus September 30, 1999: The provision for loan lossesdecreased $93 million or 23% when compared to the third quarter of 1999. Thedecrease in provision is attributable to the decreases in net charge-offs forboth the consumer and commercial portfolios when compared to the second quarterof 2000 and third quarter of 1999. Net charge-offs for the overall loanportfolio decreased 23% during the third quarter of 2000 when compared to thesame period in 1999.The provision for loan losses decreased $188 million during the first ninemonths of 2000. The decrease in provision is principally due to decreases inconsumer and foreign commercial and industrial loan net charge-offs, partiallyoffset by increases in domestic commercial and industrial loan charge-offs.Consumer net charge-offs decreased 16% during the first nine months of 2000 andnonperforming loans decreased 10% from December 31, 1999.Foreign commercial and industrial loans net charge-offs decreased 63% during thefirst nine months of 2000 and nonperforming loans decreased 9% from December 31,1999. However, domestic commercial and industrial net charge-offs andnonperforming loans increased 55% and 50%, respectively, during the sameperiods. The net effect of the above resulted in the allowance for loan lossesremaining essentially consistent with the December 31, 1999 amount. -33-  34Part IItem 2 (continued)September 30, 2000 versus December 31, 1999: The specific loss componentincreased 6% from year-end 1999 due to an increase in loans deemed by Chase tobe criticized. In addition during 2000, Chase established a portfolio segmentcomponent of $200 million to cover increased risks in the noninvestment gradesegment of its commercial loan portfolio. The expected loss component decreased10% from year-end principally due to improvement in consumer credit loan qualityduring the first nine months of 2000. The residual component at September 30,2000 was 19% compared with 18% at 1999 year-end.December 31, 1999 versus December 31, 1998: The specific loss componentincreased 29% principally due to the deteriorating creditworthiness of one largecustomer in Asia. The expected loss component increased 2% due to higheroutstanding balances in the consumer loans portfolio offset by improvement inthe commercial loan portfolio. A portfolio segment component was established in1998 to address the heightened risk profile with respect to emerging marketscross border exposures. This component was released in 1999 due to therealization of certain Asian charge-offs and the recovery of the emergingmarkets. The residual component at December 31, 1999 was 18% compared with 19%at December 31, 1998.Lending-Related Commitments: Chase also has an allowance for its lending-relatedcommitments, using a methodology similar to that for the loan portfolio. Thisallowance, which is reported in Other Liabilities, was $170 million at each ofSeptember 30, 2000, December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998. -34-  35Part IItem 2 (continued)MARKET RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's market risk management focuses primarily ondevelopments since December 31, 1999 and should be read in conjunction withpages 45-50 and Notes 1 and 19 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.VAR AGGREGATE EXPOSUREValue-at-risk ("VAR") is a measure of the dollar amount of potential loss fromadverse market moves in an everyday market environment. The VAR looks forwardone trading day and is the loss expected to be exceeded with a 1 in 100 chance.The table that follows represents Chase's average and period-end VARs for itstrading portfolios and its A/L activities. During the 12-month period endedSeptember 30, 2000, no daily trading loss exceeded that day's trading VAR. Thiscompares with a statistically expected number of actual losses that exceed theVAR of approximately three days.AGGREGATE PORTFOLIONM- Because the minimum and maximum VAR may occur on different days for different risk components, it is not meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect. In addition, Chase's average and period-end VAR is less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components, due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio diversification.TRADING ACTIVITIESChase is exposed to interest rate, foreign exchange, equity and commodity marketrisks in its trading portfolios. No single risk statistic can reflect allaspects of market risk; in addition, market exposures change continuouslythrough daily trading activities.Value-at-Risk: See the VAR Aggregate Exposure section above for Chase's averageand period-end VARs for its total trading portfolio. -35-  36Part IItem 2 (continued)Histogram: The following histogram illustrates Chase's daily market risk-relatedrevenue, which is defined as the daily change in value of the mark-to-markettrading portfolios plus any trading-related net interest income or otherrevenue. Based on actual trading results for the 12 months ended September 30,2000, Chase posted positive daily market risk-related revenue for 254 out of 261business trading days, with 90 business days exceeding positive $20 million.Chase incurred no daily trading losses in excess of negative $10 million overthe past 12 months. In addition, there were no days in the third quarter of 2000in which Chase incurred a trading loss. [Graphic of Daily Market Risk-Related Revenue - See Appendix I]Stress Testing: Whereas VAR captures Chase's exposure to unlikely events innormal markets, stress testing discloses the risk under plausible events inabnormal markets. Portfolio stress testing is integral to the market riskmanagement process and is co-equal with, and complementary to, VAR as a riskmeasurement and control tool. Giving equal weight to each produces a riskprofile that, in Chase management's view, is diverse, disciplined and flexibleenough to capture revenue-generating opportunities during times of normal marketmoves but that also is prepared for periods of market turmoil.Corporate stress tests are performed monthly on randomly selected dates. As ofSeptember 30, 2000, Chase's corporate stress tests consisted of five historicaland four hypothetical scenarios. The historical scenarios included the 1994 bondmarket sell-off and the 1998 Russian crisis. The hypothetical scenarios includedexaminations of potential market crises originating in the United States, Japanand the Euro bloc.The following table represents the potential stress test loss (pre-tax) inChase's trading portfolio predicted by Chase's stress test scenarios.Largest Monthly Stress Test - Pre-Tax -36-  37Part IItem 2 (continued)INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND ASSET/LIABILITY ACTIVITIESChase also has market risk exposure in its investment portfolio and A/Lactivities. Market risk measurements for Chase's investment portfolio and A/Lactivities do not take into account all factors that have an effect on theseactivities, such as changes in credit quality.Net Interest Income Sensitivity: At September 30, 2000, Chase's NII sensitivityover the next 12 months to an immediate 100 basis point shock in interest rateswas estimated to be approximately 4.6% of projected net income for full-year2000. At September 30, 1999, Chase's exposure under the same scenario wasapproximately 2.9% of projected 1999 net income. The increase in NII sensitivityat September 30, 2000 was primarily due to larger balance sheet positions.Net Interest Income Stress Test: Chase's NII stress testing uses historical andhypothetical scenarios. The historical scenario is a replay of the rate andspread changes that occurred in the 1994 bond market sell-off, while the varioushypothetical scenarios examine the impact of alternative patterns in the U.S.dollar yield curve and in U.S. dollar spreads. At September 30, 2000, Chase'slargest potential NII stress test loss was estimated to be approximately 5.9% ofprojected net income for full-year 2000. NII sensitivity and NII stress testscenarios were expanded in the 2000 third quarter to include sensitivity ofmortgage servicing revenues. Also, impacting NII stress test scenarios wererevisions in Chase's stress test methodology during the 2000 third quarter. Thepotential NII stress test loss has increased during 2000 primarily due to largerbalance sheet positions.Value-at-Risk: See the VAR Aggregate Exposure section on page 35 for Chase'saverage and period-end VARs for its investment portfolio and market risk-relatedA/L activities.Nonstatistical Risk Measures: The table that follows shows that Chase had adirectional basis point value ("BPV") of $(5.7) million (pre-tax) at September30, 2000, indicating that the market value of Chase's A/L positions would havedeclined by approximately $5.7 million for every one basis point increase ininterest rates along the interest rate yield curve. This compares with adirectional BPV of $(4.1) million at September 30, 1999. The following tablealso shows that the economic value of Chase's investment portfolio and A/Lactivities would have declined by $14.2 million (pre-tax) for every one basispoint widening of interest spreads. This compares with a decline of $10.4million (pre-tax) at September 30, 1999.MARKET RISK-RELATED A/L ACTIVITIESEconomic Value Stress Testing. Chase utilizes several historical andhypothetical scenarios when performing its economic value stress tests. As ofSeptember 30, 2000, under the 1994 bond market sell-off scenario, the potentialimpact on the economic value of Chase's investment portfolio and A/L activitieswould have been equivalent to less than 2% of Chase's market capitalization.IMPACT OF A/L DERIVATIVE ACTIVITYThe following table reflects the deferred gains/losses on closed derivativecontracts and unrecognized gains/losses on open derivative contracts utilized inChase's A/L activities at September 30, 2000 and December 31, 1999.(a) These net unrecognized losses do not include the net favorable impact from the assets/liabilities being hedged by these derivative contracts. -37-  38Part IItem 2 (continued)CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENTThe following capital and liquidity discussion should be read in conjunctionwith the Capital and Liquidity Risk Management section on pages 51-53 and Note18 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.CAPITALChase's capital levels at September 30, 2000 remained strong, with capitalratios well in excess of regulatory guidelines. At September 30, 2000, the Tier1 and Total Capital ratios were 7.9% and 11.6%, respectively, and the Tier 1leverage ratio was 6.3%. These ratios were lower than at September 30, 1999 andlower than at June 30, 2000, primarily as a result of the acquisition ofFlemings. Management's long-term target range for the Tier 1 Capital ratio is 8%to 8.25%; however, as was the case with the third quarter of 2000, this targetmay not always be maintained on a quarter-to-quarter basis in light of changingeconomic conditions and in response to changing business requirements.Management anticipates that Chase's Tier 1 Capital ratio will return tomanagement's target range of 8% to 8.25%, by year-end 2000.The following table shows the sources and uses of Chase's Tier 1 Capital.During the nine months of 2000, free cash flow that was generated was primarilyearmarked to support the acquisition of Flemings.Chase shareholders approved a three-for-two stock split at Chase's annualmeeting on May 16, 2000. The record date for the split was May 17, 2000, and theadditional shares of common stock issued as a result of the split weredistributed on June 9, 2000.Chase's dividend policy is to pay common stock dividends equal to approximately25% to 35% of Chase's operating earnings, less preferred stock dividends.Chase's future dividend policies will be determined by its Board of Directorsafter taking into consideration Chase's earnings and financial condition andapplicable government regulations and policies.Chase formally terminated its equity repurchase program on October 17, 2000 inconnection with its proposed merger with J.P. Morgan, which is intended to beaccounted for as a pooling of interests. Prior to the formal termination of theprogram, Chase had not repurchased any of its shares of common stock since theend of the first quarter of 2000.At September 30, 2000, the total capitalization of Chase (the sum of Tier 1 andTier 2 Capital) was $37.2 billion, an increase of $0.7 billion from December 31,1999. This increase reflects retained earnings (net income less common andpreferred dividends) generated during the period, partially offset by commonstock repurchases in the first quarter of 2000, and the redemption of $100million of preferred stock in the 2000 second quarter.LIQUIDITYWhile capital is held to absorb losses over time, liquidity is managed to meetChase's known and unanticipated cash funding needs. Chase must maintainsufficient liquidity for operations to meet payment demands on borrowings and tomake new loans and investments as opportunities arise. During the first ninemonths of 2000, Chase issued approximately $8 billion of long-term debt andcapital securities of subsidiaries, including $1.2 billion of notes inconnection with the purchase of Flemings. During the same period of 2000, $1.7billion of long-term debt matured. -38-  39Part IItem 2 (continued)OPERATING RISK MANAGEMENTThe following discussion of Chase's operating risk management focuses primarilyon developments since December 31, 1999 and should be read in conjunction withthe Operating Risk Management section on page 54 of the 1999 Annual Report.Chase is exposed to many types of operating risk, including the risk of fraud byemployees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, and errorsrelating to computer and telecommunications systems. In early 2000, Chaseestablished two additional risk-management committees, each of which reports toChase's Executive Committee: the Operating Risk Committee, which currently isreviewing the design of the control function within Chase; and the FiduciaryRisk Committee, which is responsible for approving Chase's policies forfiduciary risk.Chase maintains systems of controls that it believes are reasonably designed toprovide management and the Board of Directors with timely and accurateinformation about the operations of Chase. These systems have been designed tokeep operating risk at appropriate levels in view of Chase's financial strength,the characteristics of its businesses and the markets in which it operates, andthe competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject. However,Chase has suffered losses from operating risk from time to time, and there canbe no assurance that Chase will not suffer such losses in the future.Chase continues its reconciliation project relating to the deficienciesidentified in the computerized recordkeeping systems of the bond paying agencyfunction within Chase's Capital Markets Fiduciary Services Group. In connectionwith this project, Chase incurred some immaterial costs during the first ninemonths of 2000. Management does not anticipate that Chase will incur anyadditional material costs related to this project. The Securities and ExchangeCommission ("SEC") is investigating the question of whether, in connection withthis matter, there have been violations of its transfer agency recordkeeping orreporting regulations and whether Chase's disclosure regarding these issues havebeen adequate and timely. Chase is in discussions with the staff of the SEC toresolve these issues on a mutually acceptable basis.SUPERVISION AND REGULATIONThe following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Supervision andRegulation section on pages 1-4 of Chase's 1999 Annual Report.DIVIDENDSChase's bank subsidiaries could, without the approval of their relevant bankingregulators, pay dividends to their respective bank holding companies in amountsup to the limitations imposed upon such banks by regulatory restrictions. Thesedividend limitations, in the aggregate, totaled approximately $3.0 billion atSeptember 30, 2000.OTHER EVENTSOn October 16, 2000, Chase agreed to sell its interest in ChaseMellonShareholder Services, currently a 50-50 joint venture between Chase and MellonFinancial Corporation. The transaction is expected to be completed during thefourth quarter of this year.On September 1, 2000, Chase announced it had agreed to sell its Hong Kong-basedretail banking business, including Chase Manhattan Card Company Limited, toStandard Chartered PLC for approximately $1.3 billion in cash. The sale closedon November 1, 2000.On August 1, 2000 Chase acquired Robert Fleming Holdings Limited. Theconsideration issued to Flemings' shareholders consisted of pound sterling 2.6billion in cash, or at the option of the Flemings shareholders, notes, and 65.3million shares of Chase common stock. Chase and Flemings also have a retentionarrangement for key employees in an aggregate amount of approximately $240million (after-tax), which will be generally expensed over the two yearsfollowing the acquisition. The transaction was accounted for under the purchasemethod.Chase acquired The Beacon Group, LLC, a privately-held investment banking firm,on July 6, 2000. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method. -39-  40Part IItem 2 (continued)ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTSThe following discussion of Chase's Accounting Developments focuses primarily ondevelopments since December 31, 1999 and should be read in conjunction with theAccounting and Reporting Development section on page 55 of the 1999 AnnualReport.SFAS 133For a further discussion of SFAS 133, see page 55 of the 1999 Annual Report.SFAS 133 requires that an entity measure all derivatives at fair value andrecognize those derivatives as either assets or liabilities on the balancesheet. In addition, under SFAS 133, the change in a derivative's fair value isgenerally to be recognized in current period earnings. Chase, although notrequired to adopt SFAS 133 until calendar year 2001, already recognizes thederivatives used in its trading activities on its balance sheet at fair value,with changes in the fair values of such derivatives included in earnings. Thisrepresents the substantial majority of the derivatives utilized by Chase.If Chase had adopted SFAS 133 at September 30, 2000 with respect to those otherderivatives used by Chase as hedges of its assets, liabilities and commitments,the adoption would not have had a material impact on Chase's results ofoperations or financial position. However, there is no assurance that when Chaseformally adopts SFAS 133 at the beginning of calendar year 2001, the adjustmentrequired to be made at that time would not have a material impact on Chase'sresults of operations or financial position. The estimated September 30adjustment may be affected by changes during the fourth quarter in the interestrate environment and by management's actions in response to such changes.Further, events in the global markets, such as those that have occurred in pastyears in Asia and Russia, can create imbalances in the market, resulting intemporary volatility in hedge performance. Additionally, the FinancialAccounting Standards Board ("FASB") and the Derivative Implementation Groupcontinue to address SFAS 133 implementation issues, and their conclusions mayrequire changes in Chase's interpretations of the standard, such as theaccounting of hedges for mortgage servicing rights, and loan commitments, amongother issues.SFAS 140In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS 140, which revises the standards setforth in SFAS 125 for the accounting of securitizations and other transfers offinancial assets and collateral. Statement 140 modifies the criteria fordetermining whether the transferor has relinquished control of assets andtherefore whether the transfer may be accounted for as a sale. SFAS 140 requiresnew disclosures about securitization activities and incremental disclosuresabout collateral in addition to maintaining the existing disclosure requirementsof SFAS 125.As issued, the disclosure provisions of SFAS 140 are effective for the 2000fiscal year-end (December 31, 2000), and the provisions of SFAS 140 relating tothe transfer of financial assets and the extinguishment of liabilities areeffective for transfers after March 31, 2001. Chase currently is assessing theimpact of the adoption of SFAS 140, but management believes that the adoption ofSFAS 140 will not significantly affect Chase's earnings, liquidity or capitalresources. -40-  41Part IItem 2 (continued) THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA AND RATIOS)(a) Based on annualized amounts.(b) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations, restructuring costs and special items.(c) Includes provision for loan losses and credit costs related to the securitized credit card portfolio.(d) Cash Operating Earnings represent operating earnings excluding the amortization of goodwill and certain other intangibles.(e) Excludes the impact of credit card securitizations.bp - Denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.NM - Not meaningful. -41-  42Part IItem 2 (continued) THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND RATES (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT INTEREST AND RATES; IN MILLIONS)(a) Reflects a pro forma adjustment to the net interest income amount included in the Consolidated Statement of Income to permit comparisons of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets.(b) For the three months ended September 30, 2000 and September 30, 1999, the annualized rate for available-for-sale securities based on historical cost was 5.95% and 5.53%, respectively.(c) Includes securities sold but not yet purchased and structured notes. -42-  43Part IItem 2 (continued) THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION AVERAGE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, INTEREST AND RATES (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT INTEREST AND RATES; IN MILLIONS)(a) Reflects a pro forma adjustment to the net interest income amount included in the Consolidated Statement of Income to permit comparisons of yields on tax-exempt and taxable assets.(b) For the nine months ended September 30, 2000 and September 30, 1999, the annualized rate for available-for-sale securities based on historical cost was 5.87% and 5.63%, respectively.(c) Includes securities sold but not yet purchased and structured notes. -43-  44Part IItem 2 (continued) THE CHASE MANHATTAN CORPORATION QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) -44-  45Part IItem 2 (continued) GLOSSARY OF TERMSThe page numbers included after each definition represent the pages in this Form10-Q where the term primarily is used.1999 Annual Report: Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,1999. (Pages 7-11, 14-15, 18, 23-25, 27-30, 32-33, 35, 38-40, 46, 50)Asset/Liability ("A/L") Activities: The management of the sensitivity of Chase'snet interest income to changes in market interest rates. (Pages 8, 35, 37)Basis Point Value ("BPV"): This measurement quantifies the change in the marketvalue of Chase's assets and liabilities (that are not part of its tradingactivities) that would result from a one basis point change in interest rates.(Page 37)Cash Operating Earnings: Operating earnings excluding the impact of amortizationof goodwill and certain other intangibles. (Pages 10, 24-29)Chase USA: Chase Manhattan Bank USA, National Association. (Page 11)Derivative and Foreign Exchange ("FX") Contracts: Interest rate swaps, forwardrate agreements, futures, forwards, options, debt, equity, commodity and othercontracts used for asset/liability or trading purposes. The instrumentsrepresent contracts with counterparties where payments are made to or from thecounterparty based upon specific interest rates, currency levels, other marketrates or on terms predetermined by the contract. (Pages 9, 32)Managed Credit Card Receivables or Managed Basis: Consistent with industrypractice, Chase uses this terminology to define its credit card receivables onthe balance sheet plus securitized credit card receivables. (Page 30)Net Yield on Interest-Earning Assets: The average rate for interest-earningassets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds. (Page 18)New Economy: Represents the industry sectors and companies (e.g.,media/telecommunications, technology/information services, life sciences) andthe technologists and entrepreneurs who are at the forefront of futureinnovations (e.g., microprocessors, internet). (Page 15)Operating Basis or Operating Earnings: Reported results excluding the impact ofcredit card securitizations, restructuring costs and special items. (Pages10-12, 24-28)Overhead Ratio: Noninterest expense as a percentage of the total of net interestincome and noninterest revenue (excluding restructuring costs, special items andcosts associated with the REIT). (Pages 12, 22, 24)REIT: A real estate investment trust subsidiary of Chase. (Pages 22-23)SFAS: Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.SFAS 107: "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments." (Page 8)SFAS 115: "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."(Pages 8, 11)SFAS 125: "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets andExtinguishments of Liabilities." (Page 40)SFAS 133: "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." (Page40)SFAS 140: "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets andExtinguishments of Liabilities - a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125." (Page40)Shareholder Value Added ("SVA"): Represents operating earnings excluding theamortization of goodwill and certain other intangibles (i.e., cash operatingearnings) minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital. (Pages10, 12, 24)Special Items: The 2000 third quarter results included an $81 million gain (thesame for the nine months) from the sale of a business in Panama, a $35 millionloss ($176 million loss in the nine months) resulting from the economic hedge ofthe purchase price of Flemings prior to its acquisition, and $79 million ($129million for the nine months) of restructuring costs associated with previouslyannounced relocation initiatives. There were no special items in the thirdquarter of 1999. The results for the nine months of 1999 included $166 millionin gains from sales of nonstrategic assets (of which $95 million was from thesale of a building and $71 million was from the sale of branches in Texas) and aspecial contribution to The Chase Manhattan Foundation of $100 million. (Pages11, 14, 21)Stress Testing: A risk management tool used to measure market risk in an extrememarket environment. (Page 36)Value-at-Risk ("VAR"): A risk measurement tool used to measure the potentialovernight loss from adverse market movements. (Pages 35-37) -45-
