&nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.This section of the Annual Report providesmanagement's discussion and analysis (&#147;MD&A&#148;) ofthe financial condition and results of operationsfor JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms onpages 145&#150;146 for definitions of terms usedthroughout this Annual Report. The MD&A included inthis Annual Report contains statements that areforward-looking within the meaning of the PrivateSecurities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Suchstatements are based upon the current beliefs andexpectations of JPMorgan Chase's management and aresubject to significantrisks and uncertainties. These risks anduncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase's resultsto differ materially from those set forth in suchforward-looking statements. Certain of such risksand uncertainties are described herein (seeForward-looking statements on page 147 of thisAnnual Report) and in the JPMorgan Chase AnnualReport on Form 10-K for the year ended December&nbsp;31,2006 (&#147;2006 Form 10-K&#148;), in Part&nbsp;I, Item&nbsp;1A: Riskfactors, to which reference is hereby made.INTRODUCTION&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase & Co., a financial holding company incorporated underDelaware law in 1968, is a leading global financial services firm and one ofthe largest banking institutions in the United States, with $1.4 trillion inassets, $115.8&nbsp;billion in stockholders' equity and operations worldwide. TheFirm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers andbusinesses, financial transaction processing, asset management and privateequity. Under the JPMorgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the United States and manyof the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.JPMorgan Chase's principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank,National Association (&#147;JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.&#148;), a national bankingassociation with branches in 17 states; and Chase Bank USA, NationalAssociation (&#147;Chase Bank USA, N.A.&#148;), a national bank that is the Firm'scredit card issuing bank. JPMorgan Chase's principal nonbank subsidiary isJ.P. Morgan Securities Inc., the Firm's U.S. investment banking firm.JPMorgan Chase's activities are organized, for management reporting purposes,into six business segments, as well as Corporate. The Firm's wholesale businesses comprise the Investment Bank, Commercial Banking, Treasury &Securities Services and Asset Management segments. The Firm's consumerbusinesses comprise the Retail Financial Services and Card Services segments.A description of the Firm's business segments, and the products and servicesthey provide to their respective client bases, follows.Investment BankJPMorgan is one of the world's leading investment banks, with deep clientrelationships and broad product capabilities. The Investment Bank's clients arecorporations, financial institutions, governments and institutional investors. TheFirm offers a full range of investment banking products and services in allmajor capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure,capital raising in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk management,market-making in cash securities and derivative instruments, and research. TheInvestment Bank (&#147;IB&#148;) also commits the Firm's own capital to proprietaryinvesting and trading activities.Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (&#147;RFS&#148;), which includes Regional Banking, MortgageBanking and Auto Finance reporting segments, helps meet the financial needsof consumers and businesses. RFS provides convenient consumer bankingthrough the nation's fourth-largest branch network and third-largest ATM network. RFS is a top-five mortgage originator and servicer, the second-largesthome equity originator, the largest noncaptive originator of automobile loansand one of the largest student loan originators.RFS serves customers through more than 3,000 bank branches, 8,500 ATMsand 270 mortgage offices, and through relationships with more than 15,000auto dealerships and 4,300 schools and universities. More than 11,000 branchsalespeople assist customers, across a 17-state footprint from New York toArizona, with checking and savings accounts, mortgage, home equity and busi-ness loans, investments and insurance. Over 1,200 additional mortgage officers provide home loans throughout the country.Card ServicesWith more than 154&nbsp;million cards in circulation and $152.8&nbsp;billion in managedloans, Chase Card Services (&#147;CS&#148;) is one of the nation's largest credit cardissuers. Customers used Chase cards for over $339&nbsp;billion worth of transactions in 2006.Chase offers a wide variety of general-purpose cards to satisfy the needs ofindividual consumers, small businesses and partner organizations, includingcards issued with AARP, Amazon, Continental Airlines, Marriott, SouthwestAirlines, Sony, United Airlines, Walt Disney Company and many other well-known brands and organizations. Chase also issues private-label cards withCircuit City, Kohl's, Sears Canada and BP.Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, a joint venture with JPMorgan Chase andFirst Data Corporation, is the largest processor of MasterCard andVisa payments in the world, having handled over 18&nbsp;billion transactions in 2006.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking (&#147;CB&#148;) serves more than 30,000 clients, including corporations, municipalities, financial institutions and not-for-profit entities. Theseclients generally have annual revenues ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion.Commercial bankers serve clients nationally throughout the RFS footprint andin offices located in other major markets.Commercial Banking offers its clients industry knowledge, experience, a dedicated service model, comprehensive solutions and local expertise. The Firm'sbroad platform positions CB to deliver extensive product capabilities &#150;including lending, treasury services, investment banking and asset management &#150; to meet its clients' U.S. and international financial needs.Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services (&#147;TSS&#148;) is a global leader in providing transaction, investment and information services to support the needs of institutionalclients worldwide. TSS is one of the largest cash management providers in theworld and a leading global custodian. Treasury Services (&#147;TS&#148;) provides a variety ofcash management products, trade finance and logistics solutions, wholesale card products, and liquidity management capabilities to small and midsizedcompanies, multinational corporations, financial institutions and governmententities. TS partners with the Commercial Banking, Retail Financial Servicesand Asset Management businesses to serve clients firmwide. As a result, certain TS revenues are included in other segments' results. Worldwide SecuritiesServices (&#147;WSS&#148;) stores, values, clears and services securities and alternativeinvestments for investors and broker-dealers; and manages Depositary Receiptprograms globally.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Asset ManagementWith assets under supervision of $1.3 trillion,Asset Management (&#147;AM&#148;) is a global leader ininvestment and wealth management. AM clientsinclude institutions, retail investors andhigh-net-worth individuals in every major marketthroughout the world. AM offers global investmentmanagement in equities, fixed income, real estate,hedge funds, private equity and liquidity,including both money market instruments and bankdeposits. AM also provides trust and estate andbanking services to high-net-worth clients, andretirement services for corporations andindividuals. The majority of AM's client assets arein actively managed portfolios.Merger with Bank One CorporationEffective July&nbsp;1, 2004, Bank One Corporation(&#147;Bank One&#148;) merged with and into JPMorgan Chase &Co. (the &#147;Merger&#148;). As a result of the Merger, eachoutstanding share of common stock of Bank One wasconverted in a stock-for-stock exchange into 1.32shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase & Co. TheMerger was accounted for using the purchase methodof accounting. Accordingly, the Firm's results ofoperations for 2004 include six months of heritageJPMorgan Chase results and six months of thecombined Firm's results. For additional informationregarding the Merger, see Note 2 on pages 95&#150;96 ofthis Annual Report.2006 Business eventsAcquisition of the consumer, business bankingand middle-market banking businesses of The Bankof New York in exchange for selected corporatetrust businesses, including trustee, paying agent,loan agency and document management servicesOn October&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed theacquisition of The Bank of New York Company, Inc.'s(&#147;The Bank of New York&#148;) consumer, business bankingand middle-market banking businesses in exchangefor selected corporate trust businesses plus a cashpayment of $150&nbsp;million. This acquisition added 339branches and more than 400 ATMs, and it significantlystrengthens RFS's distribution network in the NewYork Tri-state area. The Bank of New Yorkbusinesses acquired were valued at a premium of$2.3&nbsp;billion; the Firm's corporate trust businessesthat were transferred (i.e., trustee, paying agent,loan agency and document management services) werevalued at a premium of $2.2&nbsp;billion. The Firm alsomay make a future payment to The Bank of New Yorkof up to $50&nbsp;million depending on certain newaccount openings. This transaction included theacquisition of approximately $7.7&nbsp;billion in loansand $12.9&nbsp;billion in deposits from The Bank of NewYork. The Firm also recognized core depositintangibles of $485&nbsp;million which will be amortizedusing an accelerated method over a 10&nbsp;year period.JPMorgan Chase recordedan after-tax gain of $622&nbsp;million related to thistransaction in the fourth quarter of 2006.JPMorgan Partners managementOn August&nbsp;1, 2006, the buyout and growth equityprofessionals of JPMorgan Partners (&#147;JPMP&#148;) formedan independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC (&#147;CCMP&#148;),and the venture professionals separately formed anindependent firm, Panorama Capital, LLC(&#147;Panorama&#148;). The investment professionals of CCMPand Panorama continue to manage the former JPMPinvestments pursuant to a management agreement withthe Firm.Sale of insurance underwriting businessOn July&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed the saleof its life insurance and annuity underwritingbusinesses to Protective Life Corporation for cashproceeds of approximately $1.2&nbsp;billion, consistingof $900&nbsp;million of cash received from ProtectiveLife Corporation and approximately $300&nbsp;million ofpreclosing dividends received from the entitiessold. The after-tax impact of this transaction wasnegligible. The sale included both the heritageChase insurance business and the insurance businessthat Bank One had bought from Zurich Insurance in2003.Acquisitionof private-label credit card portfolio from Kohl's CorporationOn April&nbsp;21, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed theacquisition of $1.6&nbsp;billion of private-label creditcard receivables and approximately 21&nbsp;millionaccounts from Kohl's Corporation (&#147;Kohl's&#148;).JPMorgan Chase and Kohl's have also entered into anagreement under which JPMorgan Chase will offerprivate-label credit cards to both new and existingKohl's customers.Collegiate Funding ServicesOn March&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired, forapproximately $663&nbsp;million, Collegiate FundingServices, a leader in education loan servicing andconsolidation. This acquisition included $6billion of education loans and will enable theFirm to create a comprehensive education financebusiness.Acquisition of certain operations from Paloma PartnersOn March&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase acquired themiddle and back office operations of PalomaPartners Management Company (&#147;Paloma&#148;), which waspart of a privately owned investment fundmanagement group. The parties also entered into amultiyear contract under which JPMorgan Chase willprovide daily operational services to Paloma. Theacquired operations have been combined withJPMorgan Chase's current hedge fund administrationunit, JPMorgan Tranaut.JPMorgan and Fidelity Brokerage CompanyOn February&nbsp;28, 2006, the Firm announced astrategic alliance with Fidelity Brokerage tobecome the exclusive provider of new issue equitysecurities and the primary provider of fixed incomeproducts to Fidelity's brokerage clients and retailcustomers, effectively expanding the Firm'sexisting distribution platform.&nbsp; &nbsp;EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW&nbsp;This overview of management's discussion and analysis highlights selected information and maynot contain all of the information that is important to readers of this Annual Report. For a morecomplete understanding of events, trends and uncertainties, as well as the capital, liquidity,credit and market risks, and the Critical accounting estimates, affecting the Firm and itsvarious lines of business, this Annual Report should be read in its entirety.Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseBusiness overviewThe Firm reported record 2006 net income of$14.4&nbsp;billion, or $4.04 per share, compared withnet income of $8.5&nbsp;billion, or $2.38 per share, for2005. The return on common equity was 13% comparedwith 8% in 2005. Reported results includediscontinued operations related to the exchange ofselected corporate trust businesses for the consumer,business banking and middle-market banking businesses ofThe Bank of New York. Discontinued operationsproduced $795&nbsp;million of net income in 2006compared with $229&nbsp;million in the prior year. Theprimary driver of the increase was a one-time gainof $622&nbsp;million related to the sale of thecorporate trust business (for further informationon discontinued operations see Note 3 on page 97 ofthis Annual Report). Income from continuingoperations was a record $13.6&nbsp;billion, or $3.82 pershare, compared with $8.3&nbsp;billion, or $2.32 pershare, for 2005. For a detailed discussion of theFirm's consolidated results of operations, seepages 28&#150;31 of this Annual Report.Effective December&nbsp;31, 2006, William B. Harrison,Jr. retired as Chairman of the Board and wassucceeded as Chairman by Chief Executive OfficerJames Dimon.The Firm's record 2006 results were affectedpositively by global economic conditions,investment in each line of business and thesuccessful completion of milestones in theexecution of its Merger integration plan. A keymilestone related to the Merger integration was theNew York Tri-state consumer conversion, whichlinked the Firm's more than 2,600 branches in 17states on a common systems platform (excluding 339branches acquired from The Bank of New York onOctober&nbsp;1, 2006). The Tri-state conversion, alongwith many other merger integration activities,resulted in continued efficiencies. As a result theFirm made significant progress toward reaching itsannual merger-related savings target ofapproximately $3.0&nbsp;billion by the end of 2007. TheFirm realized approximately $675&nbsp;million ofincremental merger savings in 2006, bringing estimatedcumulative savings for 2006 to $2.5&nbsp;billion, andthe annualized run-rate of savings entering 2007 isapproximately $2.8&nbsp;billion. In order to achievethese savings, the Firm expensed Merger costs of$305&nbsp;million during the year (including a modestamount of costs related to The Bankof New York transaction), bringing the totalcumulative amount expensed since the Mergerannouncement to approximately $3.4&nbsp;billion (including capitalizedcosts). Management currently estimates remainingMerger costs of approximately $400&nbsp;million, whichare expected to be incurred during 2007 and willinclude a modest amount of expense related to theacquisition of The Bank of New York's consumer,business banking and middle-market bankingbusinesses.The Firm also continued active management of itsportfolio of businesses during 2006. Actionsincluded: exchanging selected corporate trustbusinesses for the consumer, business banking andmiddle-market banking businesses of The Bank of NewYork; divesting the insurance underwritingbusiness; purchasing Collegiate Funding Services todevelop further the education finance business;acquiring Kohl's private-label credit cardportfolio; acquiring the middle and back officeoperations of Paloma Partners to expand the Firm'shedge fund administration capabilities; andannouncing a strategic alliance with FidelityBrokerage to provide new issue equity and fixedincome products.In 2006, the global economy continued to expand,which supported continued rapid growth in theemerging market economies. Global gross domesticproduct increased by an estimated 5%, with theEuropean economy gaining momentum, Japan makingsteady progress and emerging Asian economiesexpanding approximately 8%. The U.S. economyrebounded early in the year from the prior-yearhurricane disruptions, but weakened in the secondhalf of the year as home construction declined,automobile manufacturing weakened and the benefitof reconstruction from hurricane disruptionsdissipated. The U.S. experienced rising interestrates during the first half of the year, as theFederal Reserve Board increased the federal fundsrate from 4.25% to 5.25%. With an anticipatedslowing of economic growth, lower inflation andstabilizing energy prices, the federal funds ratewas held steady during the second half of the year.The yield curve subsequently inverted as recedinginflation expectations pushed long-term interestrates below the federal funds rate. Equity markets,both domestic and international, reflected positiveperformance, with the S&P 500 up 13% on average andinternational indices increasing 16% on averageduring 2006. Global capital markets activity wasstrong during 2006, with debt and equityunderwriting and merger and acquisition activitysurpassing 2005 levels. Demand for wholesale loansin the U.S. was strong with growth of approximately14%, while U.S. consumer loans grew an estimated 4%during 2006. U.S. consumer spending grew at a solidpace, supported by strong equity markets, lowunemployment and income growth, and lower energyprices in the second half of the year. Thisstrength came despite a significant decline in realestate appreciation.The 2006 economic environment was a contributingfactor to the performance of the Firm and each ofits businesses. The overall economic expansion,strong level of capital markets activity andpositive performance in equity markets helped todrive new business volume and organic growth withineach of the Firm's businesses while alsocontributing to the stable credit quality withinthe loan portfolio. However, the interest rateenvironment affected negatively wholesale loanspread and consumer loan and deposit spreads.Spreads related to wholesale liabilities widenedcompared with the prior year, but this benefitdeclined over the course of 2006.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The discussion that follows highlights theperformance of each business segment compared withthe prior year, and discusses results on a managedbasis unless otherwise noted. For more informationabout managed basis, See Explanation andreconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAPfinancial measures on pages 32&#150;33 of this AnnualReport.Investment Bank net income was flat compared withthe prior year, as record revenue was offset byhigher compensation expense and a provision forcredit losses compared with a benefit in the prioryear. Revenue benefited from investments in keybusiness initiatives, increased market share andhigher global capital markets activity. Recordinvestment banking fees were driven by record debtand equity underwriting fees and strong advisoryfees. Fixed income markets revenue set a new recordwith strength in credit markets, emerging marketsand currencies. Equity markets revenue was also ata record level, reflecting strength in cashequities and equity derivatives. The current-yearProvision for credit losses reflects portfolioactivity; credit quality remained stable. Theincrease in expense was primarily the result ofhigher performance-based compensation including theimpact of a higher ratio of compensation expense torevenue and the adoption of SFAS 123R.Retail Financial Services net income was down fromthe prior year as lower results in Mortgage Bankingwere offset partially by improved performance inRegional Banking and Auto Finance. Revenue declineddue to lower revenue in Mortgage Banking, narrowerloan and deposit spreads in Regional Banking andthe sale of the insurance business on July&nbsp;1, 2006.Deposit and loan spreads reflected the currentinterest rate and competitive environments. Thesefactors were offset partially by increases inaverage deposit and loan balances and higherdeposit-related and branch production fees inRegional Banking, which benefited from thecontinued investment in the retail bankingdistribution network and the overall strength ofthe U.S. economy. The provision for credit lossesdeclined from the prior year due to the absence ofa special provision related to Hurricane Katrina in2005, partially offset by the establishment ofadditional allowance for loan losses related toloans acquired from The Bank of New York. Expenseincreased, reflecting the purchase of CollegiateFunding Services in the first quarter of 2006 andongoing investments in the retail bankingdistribution network, with the net addition duringthe year of 438 branch offices (including 339 fromThe Bank of New York), 1,194 ATMs and over 500personal bankers. Partially offsetting theseincreases were the sale of the insurance businessand merger-related and other operatingefficiencies.Card Services net income was a record, increasingsignificantly compared with the prior year,primarily the result of a lower provision forcredit losses. Net revenue (excluding the impact ofthe deconsolidation of Paymentech) declinedslightly from the prior year. Net interest incomewas flat as the benefit of an increase in averagemanaged loan balances, partially due to portfolioacquisitions as well as marketing initiatives, wasoffset by the challenging interest rate andcompetitive environments. Noninterest revenuedeclined as increased interchange income related tohigher charge volume from increased consumerspending was more than offset by highervolume-driven payments to partners, includingKohl's, and increased rewards expense. The managedprovision for credit losses benefited fromsignificantly lower bankruptcy-related creditlosses following the new bankruptcy legislationthat became effective in October&nbsp;2005. Underlyingcredit quality remained strong. Expense (excludingthe impact of the deconsolidation of Paymentech)increased driven by higher marketing spending andacquisitions, partially offset by merger savings.Commercial Banking net income was a record in 2006.Record revenue benefited from higher liabilitybalances, higher loan volumes and increasedinvestment banking revenue, all of which benefitedfrom increased sales efforts and U.S. economicgrowth. Partially offsetting these benefits wereloan spread compression and a shift tonarrower-spread liability products. The provisionfor credit losses increased compared with the prioryear reflecting portfolio activity and theestablishment of additional allowances for loanlosses related to loans acquired from The Bank ofNew York, partially offset by a release of theunused portion of the special reserve establishedin 2005 for Hurricane Katrina. Credit qualityremained stable. Expense increased due to highercompensation expense related to the adoption ofSFAS 123R and increased expense related to higherclient usage of Treasury Services' products.Treasury & Securities Services net income was arecord and increased significantly over the prioryear. Revenue was at a record level driven byhigher average liability balances, business growth,increased product usage by clients and higherassets under custody, all of which benefited fromglobal economic growth and capital marketsactivity. This growth was offset partially by ashift to narrower-spread liability products.Expense increased due to higher compensationrelated to business growth, investments in newproducts and the adoption of SFAS 123R. The expenseincrease was offset partially by the absence of aprior-year charge to terminate a client contract.Asset Management net income was a record in 2006.Record revenue benefited from increased assetsunder management driven by net asset inflows andstrength in global equity markets, and higherperformance and placement fees. The Provision forcredit losses was a benefit reflecting net loanrecoveries. Expense increased due primarily tohigher performance-based compensation, incrementalexpense from the adoption of SFAS 123R, andincreased minority interest expense related toHighbridge Capital Management, LLC (&#147;Highbridge&#148;),offset partially by the absence of BrownCo.Corporate segment reported significantly improvedresults (excluding the impact of discontinuedoperations, as discussed further, below) driven bylower expense, improved revenue and the benefit oftax audit resolutions. Revenue benefited from lowersecurities losses, improved net interest spread anda higher level of available-for-sale securitiespartially offset by the absence of the gain on thesale of BrownCo and lower Private Equity results.Expense benefited from the absence of prior-yearlitigation reserve charges, higher insurance recoveriesrelating to certain material litigation, lowermerger-related costs and other operatingefficiencies. These benefits were offset partiallyby incremental expense related to the adoption ofSFAS 123R.On October&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm completed the exchangeof selected corporate trust businesses, includingtrustee, paying agent, loan agency and documentmanagement services, for the consumer, businessbanking and middle-market banking businesses of TheBank of New York. The corporate trust businesses,which were previously reported in TSS, werereported as discontinued operations. The relatedbalance sheet and income statement activity isreflected in the Corporate segment for all periodspresented. During 2006, these businesses produced$795&nbsp;million of net income compared with net incomeof $229&nbsp;million in the prior year. Net income fromdiscontinued operations was significantly higher in2006 due to a one-time after-tax gain of $622million related to the sale of these businesses. Amodest amount of costs associated with theacquisition side of this transaction are includedin Merger costs.&nbsp; &nbsp;Credit costs for the Firm were $5.5&nbsp;billioncompared with $7.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year. The$1.8&nbsp;billion decrease was due primarily to lowerbankruptcy-related losses in Card Services and therelease in the current year of a portion of the$400&nbsp;million special provision related to HurricaneKatrina that was taken in 2005. The decline was partially offset by an increase in the wholesaleprovision. The wholesale provision was $321&nbsp;millioncompared with a benefit of $811&nbsp;million in theprior year. The increase was due primarily toportfolio activity, partly offset by a decrease innonperforming loans. Credit quality in thewholesale portfolio was stable. The benefit in 2005was due to improvement in credit quality, reflectedby significant reductions in criticized exposuresand nonperforming loans. Consumer provision forcredit losses was $5.2&nbsp;billion compared with $8.1billion in the prior year. The reduction primarilyreflected the impact of significantly lowerbankruptcy-related credit losses and a specialprovision for credit losses in 2005 related toHurricane Katrina.The Firmhad, at year end, total stockholders'equity of $115.8&nbsp;billion, and a Tier 1 capitalratio of 8.7%. The Firm purchased $3.9&nbsp;billion, or91&nbsp;million shares of common stock during the year.2007 Business outlookThe following forward-looking statements arebased upon the current beliefs and expectations ofJPMorgan Chase's management and are subject tosignificant risks and uncertainties. These risksand uncertainties could cause JPMorgan Chase'sresults to differ materially from those set forthin such forward-looking statements.JPMorgan Chase's outlook for 2007 should be viewedagainst the backdrop of the global economy,financial markets activity and the geopoliticalenvironment, all of which are linked integrally.While the Firm considers outcomes for, and hascontingency plans to respond to, stressenvironments, the basic outlook for 2007 ispredicated on the interest rate movements impliedin the forward rate curve for U.S. Treasurysecurities, the continuation of favorable U.S. andinternational equity markets and continuedexpansion of the global economy.The Investment Bank enters 2007 with a stronginvestment banking fee pipeline and remainsfocused on developing new products andcapabilities. Asset Management anticipates growthdriven by continued net asset inflows. CommercialBanking and Treasury & Securities Services expectgrowth due to increased business activity andproduct sales with some competitive and ratepressures. However, the performance of the Firm'swholesale businesses will be affected by overallglobal economic growth and by financial marketmovements and activity levels in any given period.Retail Financial Services anticipates benefitingfrom the continued expansion of the branch networkand sales force, including the addition of The Bankof New York's 339 branches, and improved salesproductivity and cross-selling in the branches.Loan and deposit spreads are expected to experiencecontinued compression due to the interest rate andcompetitive environments.Card Services anticipates growth in managedreceivables and sales volume, both of which areexpected to benefit from marketing initiativesand new partnerships. Expenditures on marketingare expected to be lower than the 2006 level.In the Corporate segment, the revenue outlook forthe Private Equity business is directly related tothe strength of the equity markets and theperformance of the underlying portfolioinvestments. If current market conditions persist,the Firm anticipates continued realization ofprivate equity gains in 2007, but results can bevolatile from quarter to quarter. Managementbelieves that the net loss in Treasury and OtherCorporate, on a combined basis, will beapproximately $50 to $100&nbsp;million per quarter in2007, reflecting merger savings and other expenseefficiency initiatives, such as less excess realestate.The Provision for credit losses in 2007 isanticipated to be higher than in 2006, primarilydriven by a trend toward a more normal level ofprovisioning for credit losses in both thewholesale and consumer businesses. The consumerProvision for credit losses should reflect ahigher level of net charge-offs as bankruptcyfilings continue to increase from thesignificantly lower than normal levels experiencedin 2006 related to the change in bankruptcy law in2005.Firmwide expenses are anticipated to reflectinvestments in each business, continued mergersavings and other operating efficiencies. AnnualMerger savings are expected to reach approximately$3.0&nbsp;billion by the end of 2007, upon thecompletion of the last significant conversionactivity, the wholesale deposit conversionscheduled for the second half of 2007. Offsettingmerger savings will be continued investment indistribution enhancements and new productofferings, and expenses related to recentacquisitions including The Bank of New Yorktransaction. Merger costs of approximately $400million are expected to be incurred during 2007(including a modest amount related to The Bank ofNew York transaction). These additions are expectedto bring total cumulative merger costs to $3.8billion by the end of 2007.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS&nbsp;The following section provides a comparativediscussion of JPMorgan Chase's consolidated resultsof operations on a reported basis for thethree-year period ended December&nbsp;31, 2006. Factorsthat are related primarily to a single businesssegment are discussed in more detail within thatbusiness segment than they are in this consolidatedsection. Total net revenue, Noninterest expense andIncome tax expense have been revised to reflect theimpact of discontinued operations. For a discussionof the Critical accounting estimates used by theFirm that affect the Consolidated results ofoperations, see pages 83&#150;85 of this Annual Report.Revenue2006 compared with 2005Total net revenue for 2006 was $61.4&nbsp;billion, up by$7.7&nbsp;billion, or 14%, from the prior year. Theincrease was due to higher Principal transactions,primarily from strong trading revenue results,record Asset management, administration andcommissions revenue, and record Investment bankingfees. Also contributing to the increase was higherNet interest income and lower securities portfoliolosses. These improvements were offset partially bya decline in Other income partly as a result of thegain recognized in 2005 on the sale of BrownCo, andlower Mortgage fees and related income.The increase in Investment banking fees was drivenby record debt and equity underwriting as well asstrong advisory fees. For a further discussion ofInvestment banking fees, which are recordedprimarily in the IB, see the IB segment results onpages 36&#150;37 of this Annual Report.Principal transactions revenue consists of realizedand unrealized gains and losses from tradingactivities, including physical commoditiesinventories that are accounted for at the lower ofcost or fair value, primarily in the IB, andPrivate equity gains and losses, primarily in theprivate equity business of Corporate. Tradingrevenue increased compared with 2005 due to recordperformance in Equity and Fixed income markets. Fora further discussion of Principal transactionsrevenue, see the IB and Corporate segment resultson pages 36&#150;37 and 53&#150;54, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Lending & deposit related fees rose slightly incomparison with 2005 as a result of higher feeincome on deposit-related fees and, in part, fromThe Bank of New York transaction. For a furtherdiscussion of the change in Lending & depositrelated fees, which are recorded in RFS, see theRFS segment results on pages 38&#150;42 of thisAnnual Report.The increase in Asset management, administrationand commissions revenue in 2006 was driven bygrowth in assets under management in AM, whichexceeded $1 trillion at the end of 2006, higherequity-related commissions in IB and higherperformance and placement fees. The growth inassets under management reflected net asset inflowsin the institutional and retail segments. Alsocontributing to the increase were higher assetsunder custody in TSS driven by market valueappreciation and new business; and growth indepositary receipts, securities lending and globalclearing, all of which were driven by a combinationof increased product usage by existing clients andnew business. In addition, commissions in the IBrose as a result of strength across regions, partlyoffset by the sale of the insurance business andBrownCo. For additional information on these feesand commissions, see the segment discussions for AMon pages 50&#150;52, TSS on pages 48&#150;49 and RFS onpages 38&#150;42, of this Annual Report.The favorable variance in Securities gains (losses)was due primarily to lower Securities losses inTreasury in 2006 from portfolio repositioningactivities in connection with the management of theFirm's assets and liabilities. For a furtherdiscussion of Securities gains (losses), which aremostly recorded in the Firm's Treasury business,see the Corporate segment discussion on pages53&#150;54 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income declined incomparison with 2005reflecting a reduction in net mortgage servicingrevenue and higher losses on mortgage loanstransferred to held-for-sale. These declines wereoffset partly by growth in production revenue as aresult of higher volume of loans sales and widergain on sale margins. Mortgage fees and relatedincome exclude the impact of NII and AFS securitiesgains related to mortgage activities. For adiscussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is recorded primarily in RFS's MortgageBanking business, see the Mortgage Bankingdiscussion on page 41 of this Annual Report.Credit card income increased from 2005, primarilyfrom higher customer charge volume that favorablyimpacted interchange income and servicing feesearned in connection with securitizationactivities, which benefited from lower creditlosses incurred on securitized credit card loans.These increases were offset partially by increasesin volume-driven payments to partners, expensesrelated to reward programs, and interest paid toinvestors in the securitized loans. Credit cardincome also was impacted negatively by thedeconsolida-tion of Paymentech in the fourthquarter of 2005.The decrease in Other income compared with theprior year was due to a $1.3&nbsp;billion pretax gainrecognized in 2005 on the sale of BrownCo and lowergains from loan workouts. Partially offsettingthese two items were higher automobile operatinglease revenue; an increase in equity investmentincome, in particular, from Chase PaymentechSolutions, LLC; and a pretax gain of $103&nbsp;millionon the sale of MasterCard shares in its initialpublic offering.Net interest income rose due largely to improvementin Treasury's net interest spread and increases inwholesale liability balances, wholesale andconsumer loans, available-for-sale securities, andconsumer deposits. Increases in consumer andwholesale loans and deposits included the impact ofThe Bank of New York transaction. These increaseswere offset partially by narrower spreads on bothtrading-related assets and loans, a shift tonarrower-spread deposit products, RFS's sale of theinsurance business and the absence of BrownCo inAM. The Firm's total average interest-earningassets for 2006 were $995.5&nbsp;billion, up 11% fromthe prior year, primarily as a result of anincrease in loans and other liquid earning assets,partially offset by a decline in interests inpurchased receivables as a result of therestructuring and deconsolidation during the secondquarter of 2006 of certain multi-seller con-&nbsp; &nbsp;duits that the Firm administered. The net yieldon interest-earning assets, on a fullytaxable-equivalent basis, was 2.16%, a decrease offour basis points from the prior year. For afurther discussion of Net interest income, see theBusiness Segment Results section on pages 34&#150;35 ofthis Annual Report.2005 compared with 2004Total net revenue for 2005 was $53.7&nbsp;billion, up27% from 2004, primarily due to the Merger, whichaffected every revenue category. The increase from2004 also was affected by a $1.3&nbsp;billion gain onthe sale of BrownCo; higher Principal transactionsrevenue; and higher Asset management,administration and commissions, which benefitedfrom several new investments and growth in Assetsunder management and Assets under custody. Theseincreases were offset partly by available-for-sale(&#147;AFS&#148;) securities losses as a result ofrepositioning of the Firm's Treasury investmentportfolio. The discussions that follow highlightfactors other than the Merger that affected the2005 versus 2004 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was drivenby strong growthin advisory fees resulting in part from theCazenove business partnership. For a furtherdiscussion of Investment banking fees, which areprimarily recorded in the IB, see the IB segmentresults on pages 36&#150;37 and Note 2 on page 97 ofthis Annual Report.Revenue from Principal transactions increasedcompared with 2004, driven by stronger, althoughvolatile, trading results across commodities,emerging markets, rate markets and currencies.Private equity gains were higher due to acontinuation of favorable capital marketsconditions. For a further discussion of Principaltransactions revenue, see the IB and Corporatesegment results on pages 36&#150;37 and 53&#150;54, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.The higher Lending & deposit related fees weredriven by the Merger; absent the effects of theMerger, the deposit-related fees would have beenlower due to rising interest rates. In a higherinterest rate environment, the value of depositbalances to a customer is greater, resulting in areduction of deposit-related fees. For a furtherdiscussion of liability balances (includingdeposits) see the CB and TSS segment discussions onpages 46&#150;47 and 48&#150;49, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.The increase in Asset management, administrationand commissions revenue was driven by incrementalfees from several new investments, including theacquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge,the Cazenove business partnership and theacquisition of Vastera. Also contributing to thehigher level of revenue was an increase in Assetsunder management, reflecting net asset inflows inequity-related products and global equity marketappreciation. In addition, Assets under custodywere up due to market value appreciation and newbusiness. Commissions rose as a result of a highervolume of brokerage transactions. For additionalinformation on these fees and commissions, see thesegment discussions for IB on pages 36&#150;37, AM onpages 50&#150;52 and TSS on pages 48&#150;49 of this AnnualReport.The decline in Securities gains (losses)&nbsp;reflected$1.3&nbsp;billion of securities losses, as compared with$338&nbsp;million of gains in 2004. The losses were dueto repositioning of the Firm's Treasury investmentportfolio, to manage exposure to interest rates.For a further discussion of Securities gains(losses), which are recorded primarily in theFirm's Treasury business, see the Corporate segmentdiscussion on pages 53&#150;54 of this Annual Report.Mortgage fees and related income increased due toimproved MSR risk-management results. For adiscussion of Mortgage fees and related income,which is recorded primarily in RFS's MortgageBanking business, see the segment discussion forRFS on pages 38&#150;42 of this Annual Report.Credit card income rose as a result of higherinterchange income associated with the increase incharge volume. This increase was offset partiallyby highervolume-driven payments to partners and rewardsexpense. For a further discussion of Credit cardincome, see CS segment results on pages 43&#150;45 ofthis Annual Report.The increase in Other income primarily reflected a$1.3&nbsp;billion pretax gain on the sale of BrownCo;higher gains from loan workouts and loan sales; andhigher automobile operating lease income.Net interest income rose as a result of higheraverage volume of, and wider spreads on, liabilitybalances. Also contributing to the increase washigher average volume of wholesale and consumerloans, in particular, real estate and credit card loans,which partly reflected a private label portfolioacquisition by CS. These increases were offsetpartially by narrower spreads on consumer andwholesale loans and on trading-related assets, aswell as the impact of the repositioning of theTreasury investment portfolio, and the reversal ofrevenue related to increased bankruptcies in CS.The Firm's total average interest-earning assets in2005 were $899.1&nbsp;billion, up 23% from the prioryear. The net interest yield on these assets, on afully taxable-equivalent basis, was 2.20%, adecrease of seven basis points from the prior year.Provision for credit losses2006 compared with 2005The Provision for credit losses in 2006 declined$213&nbsp;million from the prior year due to a $1.3billion decrease in the consumer Provision forcredit losses, partly offset by a $1.1&nbsp;billionincrease in wholesale Provision for credit losses.The decrease in the consumer provision was drivenby CS, reflecting lower bankruptcy-related losses,partly offset by higher contractual netcharge-offs. The 2005 consumer provision alsoreflected $350&nbsp;million of a special provisionrelated to Hurricane Katrina, a portion of whichwas released in the current year. The increase inthe wholesale provision was due primarily toportfolio activity, partly offset by a decrease innonperforming loans. The benefit in 2005 was due tostrong credit quality, reflected in significantreductions in criticized exposure and nonperformingloans. Credit quality in the wholesale portfoliowas stable. For a more detailed discussion of theloan portfolio and the Allowance for loan losses,refer to Credit risk management on pages 64&#150;76 ofthis Annual Report.2005 compared with 2004The Provision for credit losses was $3.5&nbsp;billion,an increase of $939&nbsp;million, or 37%, from 2004,reflecting the full-year impact of the Merger. Thewholesale Provision for credit losses was a benefitof $811&nbsp;million for the year compared with abenefit of $716&nbsp;million in the prior year,reflecting continued strength in credit quality.The wholesale loan net recovery rate was 0.06% in2005, an improvement from a net charge-off rate of0.18% in the prior year. The total consumerProvision for credit losses was $4.3&nbsp;billion, $1.9billion higher than the prior year, primarily dueto the Merger, higher bankruptcy-related netcharge-offs in Card Services and a $350&nbsp;millionspecial provision for Hurricane Katrina. Alsoincluded in 2004 were accounting policy conformityadjustments as a result of the Merger. Excludingthese items, the consumer portfolio continued toshow strength in credit quality.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Noninterest expense2006 compared with 2005Total noninterest expense for 2006 was $38.3billion, down slightly from the prior year. Thedecrease was due to material litigation-related insurancerecoveries of $512&nbsp;million in 2006 compared with anet charge of $2.6&nbsp;billion (includes $208&nbsp;million materiallitigation-related insurance recoveries) in 2005, primarilyassociated with the settlement of the Enron andWorldCom class action litigations and for certainother material legal proceedings. Also contributingto the decrease were lower Merger costs, thedeconsolidation of Paymentech, the sale of theinsurance business, and merger-related savings andoperating efficiencies. These items were offsetmostly by higher performance-based compensation andincremental expense of $712&nbsp;million related to SFAS123R, the impact of acquisitions and investments inbusinesses, as well as higher Marketingexpenditures.The increase in Compensation expense from 2005 wasprimarily a result of higher performance-basedincentives, incremental expense related to SFAS123R of $712&nbsp;million for 2006, and additionalheadcount in connection with growth in businessvolume, acquisitions, and investments in thebusinesses. These increases were offset partiallyby merger-related savings and other expenseefficiencies throughout the Firm. For a detaileddiscussion of the adoption of SFAS 123R andemployee stock-based incentives see Note 8 on pages105&#150;107 of this Annual Report.The increase in Occupancy expense from 2005 was dueto ongoing investments in the retail distributionnetwork, which included the incremental expensefrom The Bank of New York branches, partiallyoffset by merger-related savings and otheroperating efficiencies.The slight increase in Technology, communicationsand equipment expense for 2006 was due primarily tohigher depreciation expense on owned automobilessubject to operating leases and higher technologyinvestments to support business growth, partiallyoffset by merger-related savings and operatingefficiencies.Professional & outside services decreased from2005 due to merger-related savings and operatingefficiencies, lower legal fees associated with several legalmatters settled in 2005 and the Paymentechdeconsolidation. The decrease was offset partly byacquisitions and business growth.Marketing expense was higher compared with 2005,reflecting the costs of campaigns for creditcards.Other expense was lower due to significantlitigation-related charges of $2.8&nbsp;billion in 2005,associated with the settlement of the Enron andWorldCom class action litigations and certain othermaterial legal proceedings. In addition, the Firmrecognized insurance recoveries of $512&nbsp;million and$208&nbsp;million, in 2006 and 2005, respectively,pertaining to certain material litigation matters.For a fur-ther discussion of litigation, refer to Note 27 onpages 130&#150;131 of this Annual Report. Alsocontributing to the decline from the prior yearwere charges of $93&nbsp;million in connection with thetermination of a client contract in TSS in 2005;and in RFS, the sale of the insurance business inthe third quarter of 2006. These items were offsetpartially by higher charges related to otherlitigation, and the impact of growth in businessvolume, acquisitions and investments in thebusinesses.For discussion of Amortization of intangibles andMerger costs, refer to Note 16 and Note 9 on pages121&#150;123 and 108, respectively, of this AnnualReport.2005 compared with 2004Noninterest expense for 2005 was $38.4&nbsp;billion, up13% from 2004, primarily due to the full-yearimpact of the Merger. Excluding Litigation reservecharges and Merger costs, Noninterest expense wouldhave been $35.1&nbsp;billion, up 22%. In addition to theMerger, expenses increased as a result of higherperformance-based incentives, continued investmentspending in the Firm's businesses and incrementalmarketing expenses related to launching the newChase brand, partially offset by merger-relatedsavings and operating efficiencies throughout theFirm. Each category of Noninterest expense wasaffected by the Merger. The discussions that followhighlight factors other than the Merger thataffected the 2005 versus 2004 comparison.Compensation expense rose as a result of higherperformance-based incentives; additional headcountdue to the insourcing of the Firm's globaltechnology infrastructure (effective December&nbsp;31,2004, when JPMorgan Chase terminated the Firm'soutsourcing agreement with IBM); the impact ofseveral investments, including Cazenove, Highbridgeand Vastera; the accelerated vesting of certainemployee stock options; and business growth. Theeffect of the termination of the IBM outsourcingagreement was to shift expenses from Technology andcommunications expense to Compensation expense. Theincrease in Compensation expense was offsetpartially by merger-related savings throughout theFirm. For a detailed discussion of employeestock-based incentives, see Note 8 on pages105&#150;107 of this Annual Report.The increase in Occupancy expense was due primarilyto the Merger, partially offset by lower chargesfor excess real estate and a net release of excessproperty tax accruals, as compared with $103million of charges for excess real estate in 2004.Technology and communications expense was downslightly. This reduction reflects the offset of sixmonths of the combined Firm's results for 2004against the full-year 2005 impact from terminationof the JPMorgan Chase outsourcing agreement withIBM. The reduction in Technology and communicationsexpense due to the outsourcing agreementtermination is offset mostly by increases inCompensation expense related to additionalheadcount and investments in the Firm's hardwareand software infrastructure.Professional and outside services were highercompared with the prior year as a result of theinsourcing of the Firm's global technologyinfrastructure, upgrades to the Firm's systems andtechnology, and business growth. These expenseswere offset partially by operating efficiencies.Marketing expense was higher compared with theprior year, primarily as a result of the Merger andthe cost of advertising campaigns to launch the newChase brand.&nbsp; &nbsp;The decrease in Other expense reflected lowerlitigation reserve charges for certain materiallegal proceedings in 2005: $1.9&nbsp;billion related tothe settlement of the Enron class action litigationand for certain other material legal proceedings,and $900&nbsp;million for the settlement of the WorldComclass action litigation; and in 2004, $3.7&nbsp;billionto increase litigation reserves. Also contributingto the decrease were a $208&nbsp;million insurancerecovery related to certain material litigation,lower software impairment write-offs,merger-related savings and operating efficiencies.These were offset partially by $93&nbsp;million incharges taken by TSS to terminate a client contractand a $40&nbsp;million charge taken by RFS related tothe dissolution of a student loan joint venture.For a discussion of Amortization of intangiblesand Merger costs, refer to Note 16 and Note 9 onpages 121&#150;123 and 108, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Income tax expenseThe Firm's Income from continuing operationsbefore income tax expense, Income tax expenseand Effective tax rate were as follows for eachof the periods indicated:2006 compared with 2005The increase in the effective tax rate for 2006, ascompared with the prior year, was primarily theresult of higher reported pretax income combinedwith changes in the proportion of income subject tofederal, state and local taxes. Also contributingto the increase in the effective tax rate were thelitigation charges in 2005 and lower Merger costs,reflecting a tax benefit at a 38% marginal taxrate, partially offset by benefits related to taxaudit resolutions of $367&nbsp;million in 2006.2005 compared with 2004The increase in the effective tax rate wasprimarily the result of higher reported pretaxincome combined with changes in the proportion ofincome subject to federal, state and local taxes.Also contributing to the increase were lower 2005litigation charges and a gain on the sale ofBrownCo, which were taxed at marginal tax rates of38% and 40%, respectively. These increases wereoffset partially by a tax benefit in 2005 of $55million recorded in connection with therepatriation of foreign earnings.Income from discontinued operationsAs a result of the transaction with The Bank ofNew York on October&nbsp;1, 2006, the results ofoperations of the selected corporate trustbusinesses (i.e., trustee, paying agent, loanagency and document management services) werereported as discontinued operations.The Firm's Income from discontinued operations(after-tax) were as follows for each of the periodsindicated:The increases from the prior two periods inIncome from discontinued operations were dueprimarily to a gain of $622&nbsp;million from exitingthe corporate trust business in the fourth quarterof 2006.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.EXPLANATIONAND RECONCILIATION OF THE FIRM'S USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES&nbsp;The Firm prepares its Consolidated financialstatements using accounting principles generallyaccepted in the United States of America (&#147;U.S.GAAP&#148;); these financial statements appear on pages90&#150;93 of this Annual Report. That presentation,which is referred to as &#147;reported basis,&#148; providesthe reader with an understanding of the Firm'sresults that can be tracked consistently from yearto year and enables a comparison of the Firm'sperformance with other companies' U.S. GAAPfinancial statements.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase'spresentation of &#147;operating earnings,&#148; whichexcluded merger costs and material litigationreserve charges and recoveries from reportedresults, was eliminated. These items had beenexcluded previously from operating results becausethey were deemed nonrecurring; they are includednow in the Corporate segment's results. Inaddition, trading-related net interest income nolonger is reclassified from Net interest income toPrincipal transactions.In addition to analyzing the Firm's results on areported basis, management reviews the Firm's andthe lines' of business results on a &#147;managed&#148;basis, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. TheFirm's definition of managed basis starts with thereported U.S. GAAP results and includes certainreclassifications that assumes credit card loanssecuritized by CS remain on the balance sheet andpresents revenue on a fully taxable-equivalent(&#147;FTE&#148;) basis. These adjustments do not have anyimpact on Net income as reported by the lines ofbusiness or by the Firm as a whole.The presentation of CS results on a managed basisassumes that credit card loans that have beensecuritized and sold in accordance with SFAS 140still remain on the balance sheet and that theearnings on the securitized loans are classified inthe same manner as the earnings on retained loansrecorded on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chase usesthe concept of managed basis to evaluate the creditperformance and overall financial performance ofthe entireThe following summary table provides a reconciliation from the Firm's reported U.S. GAAP results to managed basis:(Table continues on next page)&nbsp; &nbsp;managed credit card portfolio. Operations arefunded and decisions are made about allocatingresources, such as employees and capital, basedupon managed financial information. In addition,the same underwriting standards and ongoing riskmonitoring are used for both loans on the balancesheet and securitized loans. Althoughsecuritizations result in the sale of credit cardreceivables to a trust, JPMorgan Chase retains theongoing customer relationships, as the customersmay continue to use their credit cards;accordingly, the customer's credit performance willaffect both the securitized loans and the loansretained on the balance sheet. JPMorgan Chasebelieves managed basis information is useful toinvestors, enabling them tounderstand both the credit risks associated withthe loans reported on the balance sheet and theFirm's retained interests in securitized loans. Fora reconciliation of reported to managed basis of CSresults, see Card Services segment results on pages43&#150;45 of this Annual Report. For informationregarding the securitization process, and loans andresidual interests sold and securitized, see Note14 on pages 114&#150;118 of this Annual Report.Total net revenue for each of the businesssegments and the Firm is presented on an FTE basis.Accordingly, revenue from tax-exempt securities andinvestments that receive tax credits is presentedin the managed results on a basis comparable totaxable securities and investments. This non-GAAPfinancial measure allows management to assess thecomparability of revenues arising from both taxableand tax-exempt sources. The corresponding incometax impact related to these items is recordedwithin Income tax expense.Management also uses certain non-GAAP financialmeasures at the segment level because it believesthese non-GAAP financial measures provideinformation to investors about the underlyingoperational performance and trends of theparticular business segment and thereforefacilitate a comparison of the business segmentwith the performance of its competitors.(Table continued from previous page)&nbsp;Calculation of Certain GAAP and Non-GAAP MetricsThe table below reflects the formulas used tocalculate both the following GAAP and non-GAAPmeasures:Return on common equityNet income* / Average common stockholders' equityReturn on common equity less goodwill(a)Net income* / Average common stockholders' equity less goodwillReturn on assetsOverhead ratioTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue* Represents Net income applicable to common stock&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS&nbsp;The Firm is managed on a line-of-businessbasis. The business segment financial resultspresented reflect the current organization ofJPMorgan Chase. There are six major reportablebusiness segments: the Investment Bank, RetailFinancial Services, Card Services, CommercialBanking, Treasury & Securities Services and AssetManagement, as well as a Corporate segment. Theseg-ments are based upon the products and servicesprovided, or the type of customer served, and theyreflect the manner in which financial informationis currently evaluated by management. Results ofthese lines of business are presented on a managedbasis. Segment results for 2004 include six monthsof the combined Firm's results and six months ofheritage JPMorgan Chase only.Description of business segment reporting methodologyResults of the business segments are intended toreflect each segment as if it were essentially astand-alone business. During 2006, JPMorgan Chasemodified certain of its segment disclosures toreflect more closely the manner in which the Firm'sbusiness segments are managed and to provideimproved comparability with competitors. Thesefinancial disclosure modifications are reflected inthis Annual Report and, except as indicated, thefinancial information for prior periods has beenrevised to reflect the changes as if they had beenin effect throughout all periods reported. Asummary of the changes follows:The management reporting process that derivesbusiness segment results allocates income andexpense using market-based methodologies. The Firmcontinues to assess the assumptions, methodologiesand reporting classifications used for segmentreporting, and further refinements may beimplemented in future periods. Segment reportingmethodologies used by the Firm are discussed below.Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sellproducts and services to the Firm's clients, theparticipating business segments agree to sharerevenues from those transactions. The segmentresults reflect these revenue-sharing agreements.Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (&#147;FTP&#148;) is used to allocateinterest income and expense to each business andtransfer the primary interest rate risk exposuresto the Corporate business segment. The allocationprocess is unique to each business segment andconsiders the interest rate risk, liquidity riskand regulatory requirements of that segment'sstand-alone peers. This process is overseen by theFirm's Asset-Liability Committee (&#147;ALCO&#148;). Businesssegments may retain certain interest rateexposures, subject to management approval, thatwould be expected in the normal operation of asimilar peer business.&nbsp; &nbsp;Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital bytaking into consideration stand-alone peercomparisons, economic risk measures and regulatorycapital requirements. The amount of capitalassigned to each business is referred to as equity.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm refined itsmethodology for allocating capital to the businesssegments. As prior periods have not been revised toreflect the new capital allocations, certainbusiness metrics, such as ROE, are not comparableto the current presentations. For a furtherdiscussion of this change, see Capitalmanagement&#150;Line of business equity on page 57 ofthisAnnual Report.Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided bysupport units within the Firm, the costs of thosesupport units are allocated to the businesssegments. Those expenses are allocated based upontheir actual cost or the lower of actual cost ormarket, as well as upon usage of the servicesprovided. In contrast, certain other expensesrelated to certain corporate functions, or to cer-tain technology and operations, are not allocatedto the business segments and are retained inCorporate. These retained expenses include: parentcompany costs that would not be incurred if thesegments were stand-alone businesses; adjustmentsto align certain corporate staff, technology andoperations allocations with market prices; andother one-time items not aligned with the businesssegments.During 2005, the Firm refined cost allocationmethodologies related to certain corporate,technology and operations expenses in order toimprove transparency, consistency andaccountability with regard to costs allocatedacross business segments. Prior periods were notrevised to reflect this methodology change.Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolioexposures managed by the IB on behalf of clientsthat the segments share. At the time of the Merger,the reimbursement methodology was revised to bebased upon pretax earnings, net of the cost ofcapital related to those exposures.Segment results &#150; Managed basis(a)The following table summarizes the business segment results for the periods indicated:&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.INVESTMENT BANK&nbsp;JPMorgan is one of the world's leadinginvestment banks, with deep client relationshipsand broad product capabilities. The InvestmentBank's clients are corporations, financialinstitutions, governments and institutionalinvestors. The Firm offers a full range ofinvestment banking products and services in allmajor capital markets, including advising oncorporate strategy and structure, capitalraising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk management, market-making incash securities and derivative instruments, andresearch. The IB also commits the Firm's owncapital to proprietary investing and tradingactivities.2006 compared with 2005Net income of $3.7&nbsp;billion was flat, as recordrevenue of $18.3&nbsp;billion was offset largely byhigher compensation expense, including the impactof SFAS 123R, and a provision for credit lossescompared with a benefit in the prior year.Total net revenue of $18.3&nbsp;billion was up $3.7billion, or 25%, from the prior year. Investmentbanking fees of $5.5&nbsp;billion were a record, up 35%from the prior year, driven by record debt andequity underwriting as well as strong advisoryfees, which were the highest since 2000. Advisoryfees of $1.7&nbsp;billionThe following table provides the IB's total Net revenue by business segment:were up 31% over the prior year drivenprimarily by strong performance in the Americas.Debt underwriting fees of $2.7&nbsp;billion were up 37%from the prior year driven by record performance inboth loan syndications and bond underwriting.Equity underwriting fees of$1.2&nbsp;billion were up 36% from the prior year drivenby global equity markets. Fixed Income Marketsrevenue of $8.4&nbsp;billion was also a record, up 15%from the prior year driven by strength in creditmarkets, emerging markets and currencies. RecordEquity Markets revenue of $3.3&nbsp;billion increased81%, and was driven by strength in cash equitiesand equity derivatives. Credit Portfolio revenue of$1.1&nbsp;billion was down 23%, primarily reflectinglower gains from loan workouts.Provision for credit losses was $191&nbsp;millioncompared with a benefit of $838&nbsp;million in theprior year. The current-year provision reflectsportfolio activity; credit quality remained stable.The prior-year benefit reflected strong creditquality, a decline in criticized and nonperformingloans, and a higher level of recoveries.Total noninterest expense of $12.3&nbsp;billion was upby $2.6&nbsp;billion, or 26%, from the prior year. Thisincrease was due primarily to higherperformance-based compensation, including theimpact of an increase in the ratio of compensationexpense to total net revenue, as well as theincremental expense related to SFAS 123R.Return on equity was 18% on $20.8&nbsp;billion ofallocated capital compared with 18% on $20.0billion in 2005.2005 compared with 2004Net income of $3.7&nbsp;billion was up 24%, or $717million, from the prior year. The increase wasdriven by the Merger, higher revenues and anincreased benefit from the Provision for creditlosses. These factors were offset partially byhigher compensation expense. Return on equity was18%.Total net revenue of $14.6&nbsp;billion was up $2.0billion, or 16%, over the prior year, driven bystrong Fixed Income and Equity Markets andInvestment banking fees. Investment banking fees of$4.1&nbsp;billion increased 15% from the prior yeardriven by strong growth in advisory fees resultingin part from the Cazenove business partnership.Advisory revenues of $1.3&nbsp;billion were up 35% fromthe prior year, reflecting higher market volumes.Debt underwriting revenues of $2.0&nbsp; &nbsp;billion increased by 6% driven by strong loansyndication fees. Equity underwriting fees of $864million were up 11% from the prior year driven byimproved market share. Fixed Income Markets revenueof $7.3&nbsp;billion increased 15%, or $935&nbsp;million,driven by stronger, although volatile, tradingresults across commodities, emerging markets, ratemarkets and currencies. Equity Markets revenuesincreased 21% to $1.8&nbsp;billion, primarily due toincreased commissions, which were offset partiallyby lower trading results, which also experienced ahigh level of volatility. Credit Portfolio revenueswere $1.4&nbsp;billion, up $213&nbsp;million from the prioryear due to higher gains from loan workouts andsales as well as higher trading revenue from creditrisk management activities.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of$838&nbsp;million compared with a benefit of $640million in 2004. The increased benefit was dueprimarily to the improvement in the credit qualityof the loan portfolio and reflected net recoveries.Nonperforming assets of $645&nbsp;million decreased by46% since the end of 2004.Total noninterest expense increased 12% to $9.7billion, largely reflecting higherperformance-based incentive compensation related togrowth in revenue. Noncompensation expense was up4% from the prior year primarily due to the impactof the Cazenove businesspartnership, while the overhead ratio declined to67% for 2005, from 69% in 2004.Total average loans of $80.6&nbsp;billion increasedby $24.0&nbsp;billion, or 42%, from the prior year.Average loans retained of $58.8&nbsp;billion increasedby $14.0&nbsp;billion, or 31%, from the prior yeardriven by higher levels of capital marketsactivity. Average loans held-for-sale of $21.7billion were up by $10.0&nbsp;billion, or 85%, from theprior year driven primarily by growth in the IBsecuritization businesses.IB's average Total trading and credit portfolio VARwas $88&nbsp;million for both 2006 and 2005. TheCommodities and other VAR category has increasedfrom $21&nbsp;million on average for 2005 to $45&nbsp;millionon average for 2006, reflecting the build-out ofthe IB energy business, which has also increasedthe effect of portfolio diversification such thatTotal IB Trading VAR was down slightly comparedwith the prior year.According to Thomson Financial, in 2006, the Firmmaintained its #2 position in Global Debt, Equityand Equity-related, its #1 position in GlobalSyndicated Loans, and its #6 position in GlobalEquity & Equity-related transactions. The Firmimproved its position in Global Long-term Debt to#3 from #4.According to Dealogic, the Firm was ranked #1 inInvestment Banking fees generated during 2006,based upon revenue.Market shares and rankings(a)&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.RETAIL FINANCIAL SERVICES&nbsp;Retail Financial Services, which includesRegional Banking, Mortgage Banking and AutoFinance reporting segments, helps meet thefinancial needs of consumers and businesses. RFSprovides convenient consumer banking through thenation's fourth-largest branch network andthird-largest ATM network. RFS is a top-fivemortgage originator and servicer, thesecond-largest home equity originator, thelargest noncaptive originator of automobile loansand one of the largest student loan originators.RFS serves customers through more than 3,000bank branches, 8,500 ATMs and 270 mortgageoffices, and through relationships with morethan 15,000 auto dealerships and 4,300 schoolsand universities. More than 11,000 branchsalespeople assist customers, across a 17-statefootprint from New York to Arizona, withchecking and savings accounts, mortgage, homeequity and business loans, investments andinsurance. Over 1,200 additional mortgageofficers provide home loans throughout thecountry.During the first quarter of 2006, RFS completedthe purchase of Collegiate Funding Services, whichcontributed an education loan servicing capabilityand provided an entry into the Federal FamilyEducation Loan Program consolidation market. OnJuly&nbsp;1, 2006, RFS sold its life insurance andannuity underwriting businesses to Protective LifeCorporation. On October&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chasecompleted The Bank of New York transaction,significantly strengthening RFS's distributionnetwork in the New York Tri-state area.2006 compared with 2005Net income of $3.2&nbsp;billion was down by $214million, or 6%, from the prior year. A decline inMortgage Banking was offset partially by improvedresults in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.Total net revenue of $14.8&nbsp;billion was flatcompared with the prior year. Net interest incomeof $10.2&nbsp;billion was down slightly due to narrowerspreads on loans and deposits in Regional Banking,lower auto loan and lease balances and the sale ofthe insurance business. These declines were offsetby the benefit of higher deposit and loan balancesin Regional Banking, wider loan spreads in AutoFinance and The Bank of New York transaction.Noninterest revenue of $4.7&nbsp;billion was up $35million, or 1%, from the prior year. Resultsbenefited from increases in deposit-related andbranch production fees, higher automobile operatinglease revenue and The Bank of New York transaction.This benefit was offset by lower net mortgageservicing revenue, the sale of the insurancebusiness and losses related to loans transferred toheld-for-sale. In 2006, losses of $233&nbsp;million,compared with losses of $120&nbsp;million in 2005, wererecognized in Regional Banking related to mortgageloans transferred to held-for-sale; and losses of$50&nbsp;million, compared with losses of $136&nbsp;millionin the prior year, were recognized in Auto Financerelated to automobile loans transferred toheld-for-sale.The provision for credit losses of $561&nbsp;million wasdown by $163million from the prior-year provision due to theabsence of a $250&nbsp;million special provision forcredit losses related to Hurricane Katrina in theprior year, partially offset by the establishmentof additional allowance for loan losses related toloans acquired from The Bank of New York.Noninterest expense of $8.9&nbsp;billion was up by $342million, or 4%, primarily due to The Bank of NewYork transaction, the acquisition of CollegiateFunding Services, investments in the retaildistribution network and higher depreciationexpense on owned automobiles subject to operatingleases. These increases were offset partially bythe sale of the insurance business andmerger-related and other operating efficiencies andthe absence of a $40&nbsp;million prior-year chargerelated to the dissolution of a student loan jointventure.2005 compared with 2004Net income was $3.4&nbsp;billion, up $1.2&nbsp;billion fromthe prior year. The increase was due largely to theMerger but also reflected increased depositbalances and wider spreads, higher home equity andsubprime mortgage balances, and expense savings inall businesses. These benefits were offsetpartially by narrower spreads on retained loanportfolios, the special provision for HurricaneKatrina and net losses associated with portfolioloan sales in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.Total net revenue increased to $14.8&nbsp;billion, up$4.0&nbsp;billion, or 37%, due primarily to the Merger.Net interest income of $10.2&nbsp;billion increased by$2.5&nbsp;billion as a result of the Merger, increaseddeposit balances and wider spreads, and growth inretained consumer real estate loans. These benefitswere offset partially by narrower spreads on loanbalances and the absence of loan portfolios sold inlate 2004 and early 2005. Noninterest revenue of$4.6&nbsp;billion increased by $1.5&nbsp;billion due to theMerger, improved MSR risk management results,higher automobile operating lease income andincreased&nbsp; &nbsp;deposit-related fees. These benefits were offset in part by losses on portfolioloan sales in Regional Banking and Auto Finance.The Provision for credit losses totaled $724&nbsp;million, up $275&nbsp;million, or 61%,from 2004. Results included a special provision in 2005 for Hurricane Katrinaof $250&nbsp;million and a release in 2004 of $87&nbsp;million in the Allowance forloan losses related to the sale of the manufactured home loan portfolio.Excluding these items, the Provision for credit losses would have been down$62&nbsp;million, or 12%. The decline reflected reductions in the Allowance forloan losses due to improved credit trends in most consumer lending portfoliosand the benefit of certain portfolios in run-off. These reductions were offsetpartially by the Merger and higher provision expense related to subprimemortgage loans retained on the balance sheet.Total noninterest expense rose to $8.6&nbsp;billion, an increase of $1.8&nbsp;billion fromthe prior year, due primarily to the Merger. The increase also reflectedcontinued investment in retail banking distribution and sales, increased depreciationexpense on owned automobiles subject to operating leases and a $40&nbsp;millioncharge related to the dissolution of a student loan joint venture. Expensesavings across all businesses provided a favorable offset.Regional Banking2006 compared with 2005Regional Banking Net income of $2.9&nbsp;billion was upby $104&nbsp;million from the prior year. Total netrevenue of $12.0&nbsp;billion was up by $303&nbsp;million, or3%, including the impact of a $233&nbsp;millioncurrent-year loss resulting from $13.3&nbsp;billion ofmortgage loans transferred to held-for-sale and aprior-year loss of $120&nbsp;million resulting from $3.3billion of mortgage loans transferred toheld-for-sale. Results benefited from The Bank ofNew York transaction; the acquisition of CollegiateFunding Services; growth in deposits and homeequity loans; and increases in deposit-related feesand credit card sales. These benefits were offsetpartially by the sale of the insurance business,narrower spreads on loans, and a shift tonarrower-spread deposit products. The Provision forcredit losses decreased by $158&nbsp;million, primarilythe result of a $230&nbsp;million special provision inthe prior year related to Hurricane Katrina, whichwas offset partially by additional Allowance forloan losses related to the acquisition of loansfrom The Bank of New York and increased netcharge-offs due to portfolio seasoning anddeterioration in subprime mortgages. Noninterestexpense of $6.8&nbsp;billion was up by $150&nbsp;million, or2%, from the prior year. The increase was due toinvestments in the retail distribution network, TheBank of New York transaction and the acquisition ofCollegiate Funding Services, partially offset bythe sale of the insurance business, merger savingsand operating efficiencies, and the absence of a$40&nbsp;million prior-year charge related to thedissolution of a student loan joint venture.2005 compared with 2004Regional Banking Net income of $2.8&nbsp;billion was upby $1.1&nbsp;billion from the prior year, including theimpact of the Merger, and a current-year loss of$120&nbsp;million resulting from $3.3&nbsp;billion ofmortgage loans transferred to held-for-salecompared with a prior-year loss of $52&nbsp;millionresulting from $5.2&nbsp;billion of mortgage loanstransferred to held-for-sale. Growth related to theMerger was offset partially by the impact of a $230million special provision for credit losses relatedto Hurricane Katrina. Total net revenue of $11.7billion was up by $3.7&nbsp;billion, benefiting from theMerger, wider spreads on increased depositbalances, higher deposit-related fees and increasedloan balances. These benefits were offset partiallyby mortgage loan spread compression due&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.to rising short-term interest rates and a flatyield curve, which contributed to accelerated homeequity loan payoffs. The Provision for creditlosses increased by $273&nbsp;million, primarily theresult of the $230&nbsp;million special provisionrelated to Hurricane Katrina, a prior-year $87million benefit associated with the Firm's exit ofthe manufactured home loan business and the Merger.These increases were offset partially by the impactof lower net charge-offs andimproved credit trends. Noninterest expense of $6.7billion was up by $1.7&nbsp;billion as a result of theMerger, the continued investment in branchdistribution and sales, and a $40&nbsp;million chargerelated to the dissolution of a student loan jointventure, partially offset by merger savings andoperating efficiencies.The following is a brief description ofselected terms used by Regional Banking.&nbsp; &nbsp;2006 compared with 2005Mortgage Banking Net loss was $17&nbsp;million comparedwith net income of $379&nbsp;million in the prior year.Total net revenue of $1.3&nbsp;billion was down by $526million from the prior year due to a decline in netmortgage servicing revenue offset partially by anincrease in production revenue. Production revenuewas $833&nbsp;million, up by $89&nbsp;million, reflectingincreased loan sales and wider gain on sale marginsthat benefited from a shift in the sales mix. Netmortgage servicing revenue, which includes loanservicing revenue, MSR risk management results andother changes in fair value, was $481&nbsp;millioncompared with $1.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Loanservicing revenue of $2.3&nbsp;billion increased by $185million on a 13% increase in third-party loansserviced. MSR risk management revenue of negative$379&nbsp;million was down by $655&nbsp;million from theprior year, including the impact of a $235&nbsp;millionnegative valuation adjustment to the MSR asset inthe third quarter of 2006 due to changes andrefinements to assumptions used in the MSRvaluation model. This result also reflected a fullyhedged position in the current year. Other changesin fair value of the MSR asset, representing runoffof the asset against the realization of servicingcash flows, were negative $1.4&nbsp;billion. Noninterestexpense was $1.3&nbsp;billion, up by $102&nbsp;million, or8%, due primarily to higher compensation expenserelated to an increase in the number of loanofficers.2005 compared with 2004Mortgage Banking Net income was $379&nbsp;million comparedwith $269&nbsp;million in the prior year. Net revenue of$1.8&nbsp;billion was up by $50&nbsp;million from the prioryear. Revenue comprises production revenue and netmortgage servicing revenue. Production revenue was$744&nbsp;million, down by $172&nbsp;million, due to an 11%decrease in mortgage originations. Net mortgageservicing revenue, which includes loan servicingrevenue, MSR risk management results and otherchanges in fair value, was $1.1&nbsp;billion compared with$874&nbsp;million in the prior year. Loan servicingrevenue of $2.1&nbsp;billion increased by $45&nbsp;million onan 8% increase in third-party loans serviced. MSRrisk management revenue of $276&nbsp;million was up by$163&nbsp;million from the prior year, reflecting positiverisk management results. Other changes in fair valueof the MSR asset, representing runoff of the assetagainst the realization of servicing cash flows, werenegative $1.3&nbsp;billion. Noninterest expense of $1.2billion was down by $125&nbsp;million, or 9%, reflectinglower production volume and operating efficiencies.Mortgage Banking origination channels comprisethe following:Retail &#150; Borrowers who arebuying or refinancing a home work directly witha mortgage banker employed by the Firm using abranch office, the Internet or by phone.Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgagebanker by real estate brokers, home builders orother third parties.Wholesale &#150; A third-partymortgage broker refers loan applications to amortgage banker at the Firm. Brokers areindependent loan originators that specialize infinding and counseling borrowers but do notprovide funding for loans.Correspondent &#150; Banks, thrifts, othermortgage banks and other financialinstitutions sell closed loans to the Firm.Correspondent negotiated transactions (&#147;CNT&#148;) &#150;Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders, banks andbank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing tothe Firm on an as-originated basis. Thesetransactions supplement traditional productionchannels and provide growth opportunities in theservicing portfolio in stable and rising rateperiods.NetMortgage servicing revenue components:Production income &#150; Includes net gain or losson sales of mortgage loans, and otherproduction related fees.Servicing revenue &#150; Represents all revenuesearned from servicing mortgage loans for thirdparties, including stated service fees, excessservice fees, late fees, and other ancillaryfees.Changes in MSR asset fair value due to inputs orassumptions in model &#150; Represents MSR assetfair value adjustments due to changes inmarket-based inputs, such as interest rates andvolatility, as well as updates to valuationassumptions used in the valuation model.Changes in MSR asset fair value due to otherchanges &#150; Includes changes in the MSR value dueto servicing portfolio runoff (or time decay).Effective January&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm implementedSFAS 156, adopting fair value for the MSR asset.For the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,this amount represents MSR asset amortizationexpense calculated in accordance with SFAS 140.Derivative valuation adjustments and other &#150;Changes in the fair value of derivativeinstruments used to offset the impact ofchanges in market-based inputs to the MSRvaluation model.MSR risk management results &#150; Includes &#147;Changesin MSR asset fair value due to inputs orassumptions in model&#148; and &#147;Derivative valuationadjustments and other.&#148;&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Auto FinanceSelected income statement data2006 compared with 2005Total net income of $346&nbsp;million was up by $78million from the prior year, including the impactof a $50&nbsp;million current-year loss and a $136million prior-year loss related to loanstransferred to held-for-sale. Total net revenue of$1.5&nbsp;billion was up by $218&nbsp;million, or 17%,reflecting higher automobile operating leaserevenue and wider loan spreads on lower loan anddirect finance lease balances. The provision forcredit losses of $207&nbsp;million decreased by $5million from the prior year. Noninterest expense of$761&nbsp;million increased by $90&nbsp;million, or 13%,driven by increased depreciation expense on ownedautomobiles subject to operating leases, partiallyoffset by operating efficiencies.2005 compared with 2004Total net income of $268&nbsp;million was up by $35million from the prior year, including the impactof a $136&nbsp;million current-year loss related toloans transferred to held-for-sale. Total netrevenue of $1.3&nbsp;billion was up by $244&nbsp;million, or23%, reflecting higher automobile operating leaserevenue and a benefit of $34&nbsp;million from the saleof the $2&nbsp;billion recreational vehicle loanportfolio. These increases were offset partially bynarrower spreads. Noninterest expense of $671million increased by $188, or 39%, driven byincreased depreciation expense on owned automobilessubject to operating leases, offset partially byoperating efficiencies.&nbsp; &nbsp;CARD SERVICES&nbsp;With more than 154&nbsp;million cards incirculation and $153&nbsp;billion in managed loans,Chase Card Services is one of the nation'slargest credit card issuers. Customers used Chasecards for over $339&nbsp;billion worth of transactionsin 2006.Chase offers a wide variety of general-purposecards to satisfy the needs of individualconsumers, small businesses and partnerorganizations, including cards issued with AARP,Amazon, Continental Airlines, Marriott, SouthwestAirlines, Sony, United Airlines, Walt Disney Company andmany other well-known brands and organizations.Chase also issues private-label cards withCircuit City, Kohl's, Sears Canada and BP.Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, a joint venturewith JPMorgan Chase and First Data Corporation,is the largest processor of MasterCard and Visapayments in the world, having handled over 18billion transactions in 2006.JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of &#147;managedreceivables&#148; to evaluate the credit performance ofits credit card loans, both loans on the balancesheet and loans that have been securitized. Forfurther information, see Explanation andreconciliation of the Firm's use of non-GAAPfinancial measures on pages 32&#150;33 of this AnnualReport. Managed results exclude the impact ofcredit card securitizations on Total net revenue,the Provision for credit losses, net charge-offsand loan receivables. Securitization does notchange reported Net income; however, it does affectthe classification of items on the Consolidatedstatements of income and Consolidated balancesheets.Selected income statement data &#150; managed basisTo illustrate underlying business trends, thefollowing discussion of CS' performance assumesthat the deconsolidation of Paymentech hadoccurred as of the beginning of 2004. The effect ofthe deconsolidation would have reduced Total netrevenue, primarily in Noninterest revenue, andTotal noninterest expense, but would not have hadany impact on Net income for each period. Thefollowing table presents a reconciliation of CS'managed basis to an adjusted basis to disclose theeffect of the deconsolidation of Paymentech on CS'results for the periods presented.Reconciliation of Card Services' managed resultsto an adjusted basis to disclose the effect ofthe Paymentech deconsolidation2006 compared with 2005Net income of $3.2&nbsp;billion was up by $1.3&nbsp;billion,or 68%, from the prior year. Results were drivenby a lower provision for credit losses due tosignificantly lower bankruptcy filings.End-of-period managed loans of $152.8&nbsp;billionincreased by $10.6&nbsp;billion, or 7%, from the prioryear. Average managed loans of $141.1&nbsp;billionincreased by $4.7&nbsp;billion, or 3%, from the prioryear. Compared with the prior year, both averagemanaged and end-of-period managed loans continuedto be affected negatively by higher customerpayment rates. Management believes thatcontributing to the higher payment rates are thenew minimum payment rules and a higher proportionof customers in rewards-based programs.The current year benefited from organic growth andreflected acquisitions of two loan portfolios. Thefirst portfolio was the Sears Canada credit cardbusiness, which closed in the fourth quarter of2005. The Sears Canada portfolio's average managedloan balances were $2.1&nbsp;billion in the current yearand $291&nbsp;million in the prior year. The secondpurchase was the Kohl's private label portfolio,which closed in the second quarter of 2006. TheKohl's portfolio average and period-end managedloan balances for 2006 were $1.2&nbsp;billion and $2.5billion, respectively.Total net managed revenue of $14.7&nbsp;billion was downby $186&nbsp;million, or 1% from the prior year. Netinterest income of $11.8&nbsp;billion was flat to theprior year. Net interest income benefited from anincrease in average managed loan balances and lowerrevenue reversals associated with lower charge-offs. Theseincreases were offset by attrition of mature,higher spread balances as a result of higherpayment rates and higher cost of funds on balancegrowth in promotional, introductory and transactorloan balances, which increased due to continuedinvestment in marketing. Noninterest revenue of$2.9&nbsp;billion was down&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.by $197&nbsp;million, or 6%. Interchange incomeincreased, benefiting from 12% higher chargevolume, but was more than offset by highervolume-driven payments to partners, includingKohl's, and increased rewards expense (both ofwhich are netted against interchange income).The managed provision for credit losses was $4.6billion, down by $2.7&nbsp;billion, or 37%, from theprior year. This benefit was due to a significantdecrease in net charge-offs of $2.4&nbsp;billion,reflecting the continued low level of bankruptcylosses, partially offset by an increase incontractual net charge-offs. The provision alsobenefited from a release in the Allowance for loanlosses in the current year of unused reserves related to HurricaneKatrina, compared with an increasein the Allowance for loan losses in the prior year.The managed net charge-off rate decreased to 3.33%,down from 5.21% in the prior year. The 30-daymanaged delinquency rate was 3.13%, up from 2.79% inthe prior year.Noninterest expense of $5.1&nbsp;billion was up $476million, or 10%, from the prior year due largelyto higher marketing spending and acquisitionsoffset partially by merger savings.2005 compared with 2004Net income of $1.9&nbsp;billion was up $633&nbsp;million, or50%, from the prior year due to the Merger. Inaddition, lower expenses driven by merger savings,stronger underlying credit quality and higherrevenue from increased loan balances and chargevolume were offset partially by the impact ofincreased bankruptcies.Net managed revenue was $14.9&nbsp;billion, up $4.5billion, or 43%. Net interest income was $11.8billion, up $3.4&nbsp;billion, or 41%, primarily due tothe Merger, and the acquisition of a private labelportfolio. In addition, higher loan balances wereoffset partially by narrower loan spreads and thereversal of revenue related to increased bankruptcylosses. Noninterest revenue of $3.1&nbsp;billion was up$1.0&nbsp;billion, or 50%, due to the Merger and higherinterchange income from higher charge volume,partially offset by higher volume-driven payments topartners and higher expense related to rewardsprograms.The Provision for credit losses was $7.3&nbsp;billion, up$2.5&nbsp;billion, or 51%, primarily due to the Merger,and included the acquisition of a private labelportfolio. The provision also increased due torecord bankruptcy-related net charge-offs resultingfrom bankruptcy legislation which became effectiveon October&nbsp;17, 2005. Finally, the Allowance for loanlosses was increased in part by the specialProvision for credit losses related to HurricaneKatrina. These factors were offset partially bylower contractual net charge-offs. Despite a recordlevel of bankruptcy losses, the net charge-off rateimproved. The managed net charge-off rate was 5.21%,down from 5.27% in the prior year. The 30-daymanaged delinquency rate was 2.79%, down from 3.70%in the prior year, driven primarily by acceleratedloss recognition of delinquent accounts as a resultof the bankruptcy reform legislation and strongunderlying credit quality.Noninterest expense of $4.6&nbsp;billion increased by$1.0&nbsp;billion, or 27%, primarily due to the Merger,which included the acquisition of a private labelportfolio. Merger savings, including lowerprocessing and compensation costs were offsetpartially by higher spending on marketing.Selected metricsThe following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.&nbsp; &nbsp;The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and managed basis todisclose the effect of securitizations.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.COMMERCIAL BANKING&nbsp;Commercial Banking serves more than 30,000clients, including corporations, municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profitentities. These clients generally have annualrevenues ranging from $10&nbsp;million to $2&nbsp;billion.Commercial bankers serve clients nationallythroughout the RFS footprint and in officeslocated in other major markets.Commercial Banking offers its clients industryknowledge, experience, a dedicated service model,comprehensive solutions and local expertise. TheFirm's broad platform positions CB to deliverextensive product capabilities &#150; includinglending, treasury services, investment bankingand asset management &#150; to meet its clients' U.S.and international financial needs.On October&nbsp;1, 2006, JPMorgan Chase completed theacquisition of The Bank of New York's consumer,business banking and middle-market bankingbusinesses, adding approximately $2.3&nbsp;billion inloans and $1.2&nbsp;billion in deposits.Commercial Banking operates in 14 of the top 15U.S. metropolitan areas and is divided into threebusinesses: Middle Market Banking, Mid-CorporateBanking and Real Estate Banking. General coveragefor corporate clients is provided by Middle MarketBanking, which covers clients with annual revenuesgenerally ranging between $10&nbsp;million and $500million. Mid-Corporate Banking covers clients withannual revenues generally ranging between $500million and $2&nbsp;billion and focuses on clients thathave broader investment-banking needs. The thirdsegment, Real Estate Banking, serves large regionaland national real estate customers across theUnited States. In addition to these three customersegments, CB offers several products to the Firm'sentire customer base:With a large customer base across these segmentsand products, management believes the CB loanportfolio is highly diversified across a broadrange of industries and geographic locations.2006 compared with 2005Net income of $1.0&nbsp;billion increased by $59million, or 6%, from the prior year due to higherrevenue, partially offset by higher expense andprovision for credit losses.Record net revenue of $3.8&nbsp;billion increased 9%, or$312&nbsp;million. Net interest income increased to $2.7billion, primarily driven by higher liabilitybalances and loan volumes, partially offset by loanspread compression and a shift to narrower-spreadliability products. Noninterest revenue was $1.1billion, up $87&nbsp;million, or 9%, due to recordIB-related revenue and higher commercial cardrevenue.Revenue grew for each CB business compared with theprior year, driven by increased treasury services,investment banking and lending revenue. Comparedwith the prior year, Middle Market Banking revenueof $2.5&nbsp;billion increased by $177&nbsp;million, or 8%.Mid-Corporate Banking revenue of $656&nbsp;millionincreased by $105&nbsp;million, or 19%, and Real EstateBanking revenue of $458&nbsp;million increased by $24million, or 6%.Provision for credit losses was $160&nbsp;million, upfrom $73&nbsp;million in the prior year, reflectingportfolio activity and the establishment ofadditional allowance for loan losses related toloans acquired from The Bank of New York, partiallyoffset by a release of the unused portion of thespecial reserve established in 2005 for HurricaneKatrina. Net charge-offs were flat compared withthe prior year. Nonperforming loans declined 56%,to $121&nbsp;million.Total noninterest expense of $2.0&nbsp;billion increasedby $123&nbsp;million, or 7%, from last year, primarilyrelated to incremental Compensation expense relatedto SFAS 123R and increased expense resulting fromhigher client usage of Treasury Services' products.2005 compared with 2004Net income of $951&nbsp;million was up $390&nbsp;million,or 70%, from the prior year, primarily due tothe Merger.Total net revenue of $3.5&nbsp;billion increased by $1.2billion, or 53%, primarily as a result of theMerger. In addition to the overall increase fromthe Merger, Net interest income of $2.5&nbsp;billion waspositively affected by wider spreads on highervolume related to liability balances and increasedloan volumes, partially offset by narrower loanspreads. Noninterest revenue of $986&nbsp;million waspositively impacted by the Merger and higher IBrevenue, partially offset by lower deposit-relatedfees due to higher interest rates.Each business within CB demonstrated revenue growthover the prior year, primarily due to the Merger.Middle Market Banking revenue was $2.4&nbsp;billion, anincrease of $861&nbsp;million, or 58%, over the prioryear; Mid-Corporate Banking revenue was $551million, an increase of $183&nbsp;million, or 50%; and&nbsp; &nbsp;Real Estate Banking revenue was $434&nbsp;million,up $162&nbsp;million, or 60%. In addition to theMerger, revenue was higher for each business dueto wider spreads and higher volume related toliability balances and increased investmentbanking revenue, partially offset by narrower loanspreads.Provision for credit losses of $73&nbsp;millionincreased by $32&nbsp;million, primarily due to aspecial provision related to Hurricane Katrina,increased loan balances and refinements in thedata used to estimate the allowance for creditlosses. The credit quality of the portfolio wasstrong with net charge-offs of $26&nbsp;million, down$35&nbsp;million from the prior year, and nonperformingloans of $272&nbsp;million were down $255&nbsp;million, or48%.Total noninterest expense of $1.9&nbsp;billionincreased by $530&nbsp;million, or 40%, primarily dueto the Merger and to an increase in allocated unitcosts for Treasury Services' products.Commercial Banking revenues comprise the following:Lending includes a variety of financingalternatives, which are often provided on abasis secured by receivables, inventory,equipment, real estate or other assets.Products include:Treasury services includes a broad range ofproducts and services enabling clients totransfer, invest and manage the receipt anddisbursement of funds, while providing therelated information reporting. These productsand services include:Investment banking provides clients withsophisticated capital-raising alternatives, aswell as balance sheet and risk managementtools, through:&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.TREASURY & SECURITIES SERVICES&nbsp;Treasury & Securities Services is a globalleader in providing transaction, investment andinformation services to support the needs ofinstitutional clients worldwide. TSS is one ofthe largest cash management providers in theworld and a leading global custodian. TreasuryServices provides a variety of cash managementproducts, trade finance and logistics solutions,wholesale card products, and short-term liquiditymanagement capabilities to small and mid-sizedcompanies, multinational corporations, financialinstitutions and government entities. TS partnerswith the Commercial Banking, Retail FinancialServices and Asset Management businesses to serveclients firmwide. As a result, certain TSrevenues are included in other segments' results.Worldwide Securities Services stores, values, clears and services securities andalternative investments for investors andbroker-dealers; and manages Depositary Receiptprograms globally.As a result of the transaction with The Bank of NewYork on October&nbsp;1, 2006, selected corporate trustbusinesses were transferred from TSS to theCorporate segment and are reported in discontinuedoperations for all periods presented.2006 compared with 2005Net income was $1.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of $227million, or 26%, from the prior year. Earningsbenefited from increased revenue, and was offset byhigher compensation expense and the absence ofprior-year charges of $58&nbsp;million (after-tax)related to the termination of a client contract.Total net revenue was $6.1&nbsp;billion, an increase of$570&nbsp;million, or 10%. Noninterest revenue was $4.0billion, up by $380&nbsp;million, or 10%. Theimprovement was due primarily to an increase inassets under custody to $13.9 trillion, which wasdriven by market value appreciation and new business. Also contributing tothe improvement was growth in depositary receipts,securities lending, and global clearing, all ofwhich were driven by a combination of increasedproduct usage by existing clients and new business.Net interest income was $2.1&nbsp;billion, an increaseof $190&nbsp;million, or 10%, benefiting from a 22%increase in average liability balances, partiallyoffset by the impact of growth in narrower-spreadliability products.Treasury Services Total net revenue of $2.8billion was up 4%. Worldwide Securities ServicesTotal net revenue of $3.3&nbsp;billion grew by $473million, or 17%. TSS firmwide Total net revenue,which includes Treasury Services Total net revenuerecorded in other lines of business, grew to $8.6billion, up by $778&nbsp;million, or 10%. TreasuryServices firmwide Total net revenue grew to $5.2billion, an increase of $305&nbsp;million, or 6%.Total noninterest expense was $4.3&nbsp;billion, up $216million, or 5%. The increase was due to highercompensation expense related to increased clientactivity, business growth, investment in newproduct platforms and incremental expense relatedto SFAS 123R, partially offset by the absence ofprior-year charges of $93&nbsp;million related to thetermination of a client contract.2005 compared with 2004Net income was $863&nbsp;million, an increase of $586million, or 212%. Primarily driving the improvementin revenue were the Merger, business growth, andwidening spreads on and growth in average liabilitybalances. Noninterest expense increased primarilydue to the Merger and higher compensation expense.Results for 2005 also included charges of $58million (after-tax) to terminate a client contract.Results for 2004 also included software-impairmentcharges of $97&nbsp;million (after-tax) and a gain of$10&nbsp;million (after-tax) on the sale of a business.Total net revenue of $5.5&nbsp;billion increased $1.3billion, or 32%. Net interest income grew to $1.9billion, up $655&nbsp;million, due to wider spreads onliability balances, a change in the corporatedeposit pricing methodology in 2004 and growth inaverage liability balances. Noninterest revenue of$3.7&nbsp;billion increased by $686&nbsp;million, or 23%, dueto product growth across TSS, the Merger and theacquisition of Vastera. Leading the product revenuegrowth was an increase in assets under custody to$10.7 trillion, primarily driven by market valueappreciation and new business, along with growth inwholesale card, securities lending, foreignexchange, trade, clearing and ACH revenues.Partially offsetting this growth in noninterestrevenue was a decline in deposit-related fees dueto higher interest rates and the absence, in thecurrent period, of a gain on the sale of abusiness.&nbsp; &nbsp;TS Total net revenue of $2.7&nbsp;billion grew by$635&nbsp;million, and WSS Total net revenue of $2.8billion grew by $706&nbsp;million. TSS firmwide Totalnet revenue, which includes TS Total net revenuerecorded in other lines of business, grew to $7.8billion, up $2.1&nbsp;billion, or 38%. Treasury Servicesfirmwide Total net revenue grew to $4.9&nbsp;billion, up$1.4&nbsp;billion, or 41%.Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was$154&nbsp;million, an increase of $64&nbsp;million,primarily as a result of the Merger. TSS ischarged a credit reimbursement related to certainexposures managed within the Investment Bankcredit portfolio on behalf of clients shared withTSS.Total noninterest expense of $4.1&nbsp;billion was up$324&nbsp;million, or 9%, due to the Merger, increasedcompensation expense resulting from new business growth and the Vastera acquisition,and charges of $93&nbsp;million to terminate a clientcontract. Partially offsetting these increases werehigher product unit costs charged to other lines ofbusiness, primarily Commercial Banking, lowerallocations of Corporate segment expenses, mergersavings and business efficiencies. The prior yearincluded software-impairment charges of $155million.Treasury & Securities Services firmwide metricsinclude certain TSS product revenues andliability balances reported in other lines ofbusiness for customers who are also customers ofthose lines of business.Management reviews firmwide metrics such asliability balances, revenues and overhead ratiosin assessing financial performance for TSS assuch firmwide metrics capture the firmwideimpact of TS' and TSS' products and services.Management believes such firmwide metrics arenecessary in order to understand the aggregateTSS business.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.ASSET MANAGEMENT&nbsp;With assets under supervision of $1.3trillion, AM is a global leader in investment andwealth management. AM clients includeinstitutions, retail investors and high-net-worthindividuals in every major market throughout theworld. AM offers global investment management inequities, fixed income, real estate, hedge funds,private equity and liquidity, including bothmoney-market instruments and bank deposits. AMalso provides trust and estate and bankingservices to high-net-worth clients, and retirementservices for corporations and individuals. Themajority of AM's client assets are in activelymanaged portfolios.2006 compared with 2005Net income was a record $1.4&nbsp;billion, up by $193million, or 16%, from the prior year. Improvedresults were driven by increased revenue offsetpartially by higher performance-based compensationexpense, incremental expense from the adoption ofSFAS 123R and the absence of a tax creditrecognized in the prior year.Total net revenue was a record $6.8&nbsp;billion, up by$1.1&nbsp;billion, or 20%, from the prior year.Noninterest revenue, principally fees andcommissions, of $5.8&nbsp;billion was up by $1.2billion, or 27%. This increase was due largely toincreased assets under management and higherperformance and placement fees. Net interestincome was $971&nbsp;million, down by $110&nbsp;million, or10%, from the prior year. The decline was dueprimarily to narrower spreads on deposit productsand the absence of BrownCo, partially offset byhigher deposit and loan balances.Institutional revenue grew 41%, to $2.0&nbsp;billion,due to net asset inflows and higher performancefees. Private Bank revenue grew 13%, to $1.9billion, due to increased placement activity,higher asset management fees and higher depositbalances, partially offset by narrower averagespreads on deposits. Retail revenue grew 22%, to$1.9&nbsp;billion, primarily due to net asset inflows,partially offset by the sale of BrownCo. PrivateClient Services revenue decreased 1%, to $1.0billion, as higher deposit and loan balances weremore than offset by narrower average deposit andloan spreads.Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $28million compared with a benefit of $56&nbsp;million inthe prior year. The current-year benefit reflects ahigh level of recoveries and stable credit quality.Total noninterest expense of $4.6&nbsp;billion was upby $718&nbsp;million, or 19%, from the prior year. Theincrease was due to higher performance-basedcompensation, incremental expense related to SFAS123R, increased salaries and benefits related tobusiness growth, and higher minority interestexpense related to Highbridge, partially offset bythe absence of BrownCo.2005 compared with 2004Net income of $1.2&nbsp;billion was up $535&nbsp;millionfrom the prior year due to the Merger andincreased revenue, partially offset by highercompensation expense.Total net revenue was $5.7&nbsp;billion, up $1.5billion, or 36%. Noninterest revenue, primarilyfees and commissions, of $4.6&nbsp;billion was up $1.2billion, principally due to the Merger, theacquisition of a majority interest in Highbridge in2004, net asset inflows and global equity marketappreciation. Net interest income of $1.1&nbsp;billionwas up $285&nbsp;million, primarily due to the Merger,higher deposit and loan balances, partially offsetby narrower deposit spreads.Private Bank revenue grew 9%, to $1.7&nbsp;billion.Retail revenue grew 30%, to $1.5&nbsp;billion.Institutional revenue grew 57%, to $1.4&nbsp;billion,due to the acquisition of a majority interest inHighbridge. Private Client Services revenue grew88%, to $1.0&nbsp;billion.Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $56million, compared with a benefit of $14&nbsp;millionin the prior year, due to lower net charge-offsand refinements in the data used to estimate theallowance for credit losses.Total noninterest expense of $3.9&nbsp;billion increasedby $727&nbsp;million, or 23%, reflecting the Merger, theacquisition of Highbridge and increasedcompensation expense related primarily to higherperformance-based incentives.&nbsp; &nbsp;AM's client segments comprise the following:Institutional brings comprehensive globalinvestment services &#150; including assetmanagement, pension analytics, asset-liabilitymanagement and active risk budgeting strategies&#150; to corporate and public institutions,endowments, foundations, not-for-profitorganizations and governments worldwide.Retail provides worldwide investment managementservices and retirement planning andadministration through third-party and directdistribution of a full range of investmentvehicles.The Private Bank addresses every facet of wealthmanagement for ultra-high-net-worth individualsand families worldwide, including investmentmanagement, capital markets and risk management,tax and estate planning, banking, capital raisingand specialty-wealth advisory services.Private Client Services offers high-net-worthindividuals, families and business owners in theUnited States comprehensive wealth managementsolutions, including investment management,capital markets and risk management, tax andestate planning, banking, and specialty-wealthadvisory services.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Assets under supervision2006 compared with 2005Assets under supervision (&#147;AUS&#148;) were $1.3trillion, up 17%, or $198&nbsp;billion, from the prioryear. Assets under management (&#147;AUM&#148;) were $1.0trillion, up 20%, or $166&nbsp;billion, from the prioryear. The increase was the result of net assetinflows in the Retail segment, primarily inequity-related products, Institutional segmentflows, primarily in liquidity products, and marketappreciation. Custody, brokerage, administrationand deposit balances were $334&nbsp;billion, up by $32&nbsp;billion. The Firm also has a 43% interest inAmerican Century Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled$103&nbsp;billion and $101&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006and 2005, respectively.2005 compared with 2004AUS at December&nbsp;31, 2005, were $1.1 trillion, up4%, or $43&nbsp;billion, from the prior year despite a$33&nbsp;billion reduction due to the sale of BrownCo.AUM were $847&nbsp;billion, up 7%. The increase wasprimarily the result of net asset inflows inequity-related products and global equity marketappreciation. Custody, brokerage, administration,and deposits were $302&nbsp;billion, down $13&nbsp;billiondue to a $33&nbsp;billion reduction from the sale ofBrownCo. The Firm also has a 43% interest inAmerican Century Companies, Inc., whose AUMtotaled $101&nbsp;billion and $98&nbsp;billion at December31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.&nbsp; &nbsp;CORPORATE&nbsp;The Corporate sector comprises PrivateEquity, Treasury, corporate staff units andexpenses that are centrally managed. PrivateEquity includes the JPMorgan Partners and ONEEquity Partners businesses. Treasury manages thestructural interest rate risk and investmentportfolio for the Firm. The corporate staff unitsinclude Central Technology and Operations,Internal Audit, Executive Office, Finance, HumanResources, Marketing & Communications, Office ofthe General Counsel, Corporate Real Estate andGeneral Services, Risk Management, and Strategyand Development. Other centrally managed expensesinclude the Firm's occupancy and pension-relatedexpenses, net of allocations to the business.On August&nbsp;1, 2006, the buyout and growth equityprofessionals of JPMorgan Partners (&#147;JPMP&#148;) formedan independent firm, CCMP Capital, LLC (&#147;CCMP&#148;), and the ventureprofessionals separately formed an independentfirm, Panorama Capital, LLC (&#147;Panorama&#148;). Theinvestment professionals of CCMP and Panoramacontinue to manage the former JPMP investmentspursuant to a management agreement with the Firm.On October&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm completed the exchangeof selected corporate trust businesses, includingtrustee, paying agent, loan agency and documentmanagement services, for the consumer, businessbanking and middle-market banking businesses of TheBank of New York. These corporate trust businesses,which were previously reported in TSS, are nowreported as discontinued operations for all periodspresented within Corporate. The related balancesheet and income statement activity weretransferred to the Corporate segment commencingwith the second quarter of 2006. Periods prior tothe second quarter of 2006 have been revised toreflect this transfer.2006 compared with 2005Net income was $842&nbsp;million compared with a netloss of $3.6&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Incomparison with the prior year, Private Equityearnings was $627&nbsp;million, down from $821&nbsp;million;Treasury net loss was $560&nbsp;million compared with anet loss of $2.0&nbsp;billion; the net loss in OtherCorporate (including Merger costs) was $20&nbsp;million compared with a net lossof $2.6&nbsp;billion; and the Net income fromdiscontinued operations was $795&nbsp;million comparedwith $229&nbsp;million.Total net revenue was $8&nbsp;million, as compared witha negative $1.1&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Netinterest income was a negative $1.0&nbsp;billioncompared with negative $2.8&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. Treasury was the primary driver of theimprovement, with Net interest income of negative$140&nbsp;million compared with negative $1.7&nbsp;billion inthe prior year, benefiting primarily from animprovement in Treasury's net interest spread andan increase in available-for-sale securities.Noninterest revenue was $1.1&nbsp;billion compared with$1.6&nbsp;billion, reflecting the absence of the $1.3billion gain on the sale of BrownCo last year andlower Private Equity gains of $1.3&nbsp;billion comparedwith gains of $1.7&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Thesedeclines were offset by $619&nbsp;million in securitieslosses in Treasury compared with securities lossesof $1.5&nbsp;billion in the prior year and a gain of$103&nbsp;million related to the sale of Mastercardshares in its initial public offering in thecurrent year.Total noninterest expense was $1.1&nbsp;billion, down by$4.2&nbsp;billion from $5.3&nbsp;billion in the prior year.Insurance recoveries relating to certain materiallitigation were $512&nbsp;million in the current year,while the prior-year results included a materiallitigation charge of $2.8&nbsp;billion, and relatedinsurance recoveries of $208&nbsp;million. Prior-yearexpense included a $145&nbsp;million cost due to theaccelerated vesting of stock options. Merger costswere $305&nbsp;million compared with $722&nbsp;million in theprior year.Discontinued operations include the results ofoperations of selected corporate trust businessessold to The Bank of New York on October&nbsp;1, 2006.Prior to the sale, the selected corporate trustbusinesses produced $173&nbsp;million of Net income inthe current year compared with Net income of $229million in the prior year. Net income fromdiscontinued operations for 2006 also included aone-time gain of $622&nbsp;million related to the saleof these businesses.2005 compared with 2004Total net revenue was a negative $1.1&nbsp;billioncompared with Total net revenue of $769&nbsp;million inthe prior year. Noninterest revenue of $1.6&nbsp;billiondecreased by $363&nbsp;million and included securitieslosses of $1.5&nbsp;billion due to the following:repositioning of the Treasury investment portfolioto manage exposure to interest rates; the gain onthe sale of BrownCo of $1.3&nbsp;billion; and theincrease in private equity gains of $262&nbsp;million.For further discussion on the sale of BrownCo, seeNote 2 on page 97 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Net interest income was a loss of $2.8billion compared with a loss of $1.2&nbsp;billion inthe prior year. Actions and policies adopted inconjunction with the Merger and the repositioningof the Treasury investment portfolio were themain drivers of the increased loss.Total noninterest expense was $5.3&nbsp;billion, down$1.1&nbsp;billion from $6.4&nbsp;billion in the prior year. Material litigationcharges were $2.8&nbsp;billion compared with $3.7billion in the prior year. Merger costs were $722million compared with $1.4&nbsp;billion in the prioryear. These decreases were offset primarily by thecost of accelerated vesting of certain employeestock options.On September&nbsp;15, 2004, JPMorgan Chase and IBMannounced the Firm's plans to reintegrate theportions of its technology infrastructure &#150;including data centers, help desks, distributedcomputing, data networks and voice networks &#150; thatwere previously outsourced to IBM. In January&nbsp;2005,approximately 3,100 employees and 800 contractemployees were transferred to the Firm.Private equity portfolio2006 compared with 2005The carrying value of the private equity portfoliodeclined by $95&nbsp;million to $6.1&nbsp;billion as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2006. This decline was due primarilyto sales offset partially by new investment activity. The portfolio represented 8.6%of the Firm's stockholders' equity less goodwillat December&nbsp;31, 2006, down from 9.7% at December31, 2005.2005 compared with 2004The carrying value of the private equity portfoliodeclined by $1.3&nbsp;billion to $6.2&nbsp;billion as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2005. This decline was primarily the result of sales and recapitalizationsof direct investments. The portfolio represented9.7% and 12% of JPMorgan Chase's stockholders'equity less goodwill at December&nbsp;31, 2005 and 2004,respectively.Selected income statement andbalance sheet data&nbsp; &nbsp;BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS&nbsp;Balance sheet overviewAt December&nbsp;31, 2006, the Firm's total assets were$1.4 trillion, an increase of $152.6&nbsp;billion, or13%, from December&nbsp;31, 2005. Total liabilitieswere $1.2 trillion, an increase of $144.0&nbsp;billion,or 13%, from December&nbsp;31, 2005. Stockholders'equity was $115.8&nbsp;billion, an increaseof $8.6&nbsp;billion, or 8% from December&nbsp;31, 2005. Thefollowing is a discussion of the significantchanges in balance sheet items during 2006.Federal funds sold and securities purchased underresale agreements; Securities borrowed; Federalfunds purchased and securities sold underrepurchase agreements; and Commercial paper and Other borrowed fundsThe Firm utilizes Federal funds sold and securitiespurchased under resale agreements, Securitiesborrowed, Federal funds purchased and securitiessold under repurchase agreements and Commercialpaper and other borrowed funds as part of itsliquidity management activities, in order to managethe Firm's cash positions, risk-based capitalrequirements, and to maximize liquidity access andminimize funding costs. In 2006, Federal funds soldincreased in connection with higher levels of fundsthat were available for short-term investments.Securities sold under repurchase agreements andCommercial paper and other borrowed fundsincreased primarily due to short-term requirementsto fund trading positions and AFS securitiesinventory levels, as well as the result of growthin volume related to sweeps and other cashmanagement products. For additional information onthe Firm's Liquidity risk management, see pages62&#150;63 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; debt and equity instrumentsThe Firm uses debt and equity trading instrumentsfor both market-making and proprietary risk-takingactivities. These instruments consist primarily offixed income securities (including government andcorporate debt), equity securities and convertiblecash instruments, as well as physical commodities.The increase in trading assets over December&nbsp;31,2005, was due primarily to the more favorablecapital markets environment, with growth inclient-driven market-making activities across bothproducts (such as interest rate, credit and equitymarkets) and regions. For additional information,refer to Note 4 on page 98 of this Annual Report.Trading assets and liabilities &#150; derivative receivables and payablesThe Firm utilizes various interest rate, foreignexchange, equity, credit and commodity derivativesfor market-making, proprietary risk-taking andrisk-management purposes. The increases inderivative receivables and payables from December31, 2005, primarily stemmed from an increase incredit derivatives and equity contracts. Foradditional information, refer to Derivative contracts and Note 4 onpages 69-72 and 98,respectively, of this Annual Report.SecuritiesThe Firm's securities portfolio, almost all ofwhich is classified as AFS, is used primarily tomanage the Firm's exposure to interest ratemovements. The AFS portfolio increased by $44.4billion from the 2005&nbsp;year end, primarily due tonet purchases in the Treasury investment securitiesportfolio, in connection with repositioning theFirm's portfolio to manage exposure to interestrates. For additional information related tosecurities, refer to the Corporate segmentdiscussion and to Note 10 on pages 53&#150;54 and108&#150;111, respectively, of this Annual Report.Interests in purchased receivables and Beneficialinterests issued by consolidated VIEsInterests in purchased receivables and Beneficialinterests issued by consolidated VIEs declined fromDecember&nbsp;2005, as a result of the restructuringduring the second quarter of 2006 ofFirm-administered multi-seller conduits. Therestructuring resulted in the deconsolidation of$29&nbsp;billion of Interests in purchased receivables,$3&nbsp;billion of Loans and $1&nbsp;billion of AFSsecurities, as well as a corresponding decrease in Beneficial interests issued byconsolidated VIEs. For additional informationrelated to multi-seller conduits, refer toOff&#150;balance sheet arrangements and contractualcash obligations on pages 59&#150;60 and Note 15 onpages 118&#150;120 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.LoansThe Firm provides loans to customers of all sizes,from large corporate clients to individualconsumers. The Firm manages the risk/rewardrelationship of each portfolio and discourages theretention of loan assets that do not generate apositive return above the cost of risk-adjustedcapital. The $63.8&nbsp;billion increase in loans, net of the allowance for loan losses, fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, was due primarily to an increaseof $33.6&nbsp;billion in the wholesale portfolio, mainlyin the IB, reflecting an increase in capitalmarkets activity, including financings associatedwith client acquisitions, securitizations and loansyndications. CB loans also increased as a resultof organic growth and The Bank of New Yorktransaction. The $30.3&nbsp;billion increase in consumerloans was due largely to increases in CS(reflecting strong organic growth, a reduction incredit card securitization activity, and theacquisitions of private-label credit cardportfolios), increases in education loans resultingfrom the 2006 first-quarter acquisition ofCollegiate Funding Services, and as a result of TheBank of New York transaction. These increases wereoffset partially by a decline in auto loans andleases. The Allowance for loan losses increased$189&nbsp;million, or 3%, from December&nbsp;31, 2005. For amore detailed discussion of the loan portfolio andthe Allowance for loan losses, refer to Credit riskmanagement on pages 64&#150;76 of this Annual Report.GoodwillGoodwill arises from business combinations andrepresents the excess of the cost of an acquiredentity over the net fair value amounts assigned toassets acquired and liabilities assumed. The $1.6billion increase in Goodwill primarily resultedfrom the addition of $1.8&nbsp;billion of goodwill fromThe Bank of New York transaction in the 2006fourth quarter and from the 2006 first-quarteracquisition of Collegiate Funding Services.Partially offsetting the increase in Goodwill werereductions of $402&nbsp;million resulting from the saleof selected corporate trust businesses to The Bankof New York; purchase accounting adjustmentsassociated with the 2005 fourth-quarteracquisition of the Sears Canada credit cardbusiness; the 2006 second quarter sale of theinsurance business; and a reduction related toreclassifying net assets of a subsidiary asheld-for-sale. For additional information, seeNotes 3 and 16 on pages 97 and 121&#150;123 of thisAnnual Report.Other intangible assetsThe Firm's other intangible assets consist ofmortgage servicing rights (&#147;MSRs&#148;), purchasedcredit card relationships, other creditcard&#150;related intangibles, core depositintangibles, and all other intangibles. The $293million increase in Other intangible assetsprimarily reflects higher MSRs due to growth in theservicing portfolio, the addition of core depositintangibles from The Bank of New York transactionand purchase accounting adjustments related to theSears Canada credit card business. Partiallyoffsetting these increases were the amortization ofintangibles and a $436&nbsp;million reduction in Otherintangible assets as a result of the sale ofselected corporate trust businesses to The Bank ofNew York. For additional information on MSRs andother intangible assets, see Notes 3 and 16 onpages 97 and 121&#150;123 of this Annual Report.DepositsThe Firm's deposits represent a liability tocustomers, both retail and wholesale, for fundsheld on their behalf. Deposits are generallyclassified by location (U.S. and non-U.S.), whetherthey are interest- or noninterest-bearing, and bytype (demand, money market deposit accounts(&#147;MMDAs&#148;), savings, time, negotiable order ofwithdrawal (&#147;NOW&#148;) accounts), and help provide astable and consistent source of funding to theFirm. Deposits increased by 15% from December&nbsp;31,2005. Growth in retail deposits reflected The Bankof New York transaction, new account acquisitions,and the ongoing expansion of the retail branchdistribution network. Wholesale deposits increaseddriven by growth in business volumes. Partiallyoffsetting the growth in wholesale deposits was a$24.0&nbsp;billion decline as a result of the sale ofselected corporate trust businesses to The Bank ofNew York. For more information on deposits, referto the RFS segment discussion and the Liquidityrisk management discussion on pages 38&#150;42 and62&#150;63, respectively, of this Annual Report. Formore information on wholesale liability balances,including deposits, refer to the CB and TSS segmentdiscussions on pages 46&#150;47 and 48&#150;49,respectively, of this Annual Report.Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debt securitiesThe Firm utilizes Long-term debt and trustpreferred capital debt securities as part of itsliquidity and capital management activities.Long-term debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities increased by $25.7&nbsp;billion, or 21%, fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, primarily due to net newissuances. Continued strong foreign investorparticipation in the global corporate marketsallowed JPMorgan Chase to identify attractiveopportunities globally to further diversify itsfunding and capital sources. During 2006, JPMorganChase issued approximately $56.7&nbsp;billion oflong-term debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities. These issuances were offset partiallyby $34.3&nbsp;billion of long-term debt and trustpreferred capital debt securities that matured orwere redeemed. For additional information on theFirm's long-term debt activities, see the Liquidityrisk management discussion on pages 62&#150;63 and Note19 on pages 124&#150;125 of this Annual Report.Stockholders' equityTotal stockholders' equity increased by $8.6billion, or 8%, from year-end 2005 to $115.8&nbsp;billionat December&nbsp;31, 2006. The increase was primarilythe result of Net income for 2006 and net sharesissued under the Firm's employee stock-basedcompensation plans, offset partially by thedeclaration of cash dividends, stock repurchases, acharge of $1.1&nbsp;billion to Accumulated othercomprehensive income (loss)&nbsp;related to theprospective adoption, as required on December&nbsp;31,2006, of SFAS 158 for the Firm's defined benefitpension and OPEB plans, and the redemption ofpreferred stock. For a further discussion ofcapital, see the Capital management section thatfollows. For a further discussion of SFAS 158, seeNote 7 on pages 100&#150;105 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;CAPITAL MANAGEMENT&nbsp;The Firm's capital management framework isintended to ensure that there is capital sufficientto support the underlying risks of the Firm'sbusiness activities, as measured by economic riskcapital, and to maintain &#147;well-capitalized&#148; statusunder regulatory requirements. In addition, theFirm holds capital above these requirements inamounts deemed appropriate to achieve management'sregulatory and debt rating objectives. The processof assigning equity to the lines of business isintegrated into the Firm's capital framework and isoverseen by ALCO.Line of business equityThe Firm's framework for allocating capital is based upon the following objectives:Equity for a line of business represents the amountthe Firm believes the business would require if itwere operating independently, incorporatingsufficient capital to address economic riskmeasures, regulatory capital requirements andcapital levels for similarly rated peers. Return onequity is measured and internal targets forexpected returns are established as a key measureof a business segment's performance.Effective January&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm refined itsmethodology for allocating capital to the lines ofbusiness. As a result of this refinement, RFS, CS,CB, TSS and AM had higher amounts of capitalallocated to them commencing in the first quarterof 2006. The revised methodology considers for eachline of business, among other things, goodwillassociated with such line of business' acquisitionssince the Merger. In management's view, the revisedmethodology assigns responsibility to the lines ofbusiness to generate returns on the amount ofcapital supporting acquisition-related goodwill. Aspart of this refinement in the capital allocationmethodology, the Firm assigned to the Corporatesegment an amount of equity capital equal to thethen-current book value of goodwill from and priorto the Merger. As prior periods have not beenrevised to reflect the new capital allocations,capital allocated to the respective lines ofbusiness for 2006 is not comparable to priorperiods; and certain business metrics, such as ROE,are not comparable to the current presentation. TheFirm may revise its equity capital-allocationmethodology again in the future.In accordance with SFAS 142, the lines of businessperform the required goodwill impairment testing.For a further discussion of goodwill and impairmenttesting, see Critical accounting estimates and Note16 on pages 83&#150;85 and 121&#150;123, respectively, ofthis Annual Report.Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacyrelative to the risks underlying the Firm'sbusiness activities, utilizing internalrisk-assessment methodologies. The Firm assignseconomic capital primarily based upon four riskfactors: credit risk, market risk, operational riskand private equity risk, principally for the Firm'sprivate equity business.Credit risk capitalCredit risk capital is estimated separately forthe wholesale businesses (IB, CB, TSS and AM) andconsumer businesses (RFS and CS).Credit risk capital for the overall wholesalecredit portfolio is defined in terms of unexpectedcredit losses, both from defaults and declines inmarket value due to credit deterioration, measuredover a one-year period at a confidence levelconsistent with the level of capitalizationnecessary to achieve a targeted &#145;AA' solvencystandard. Unexpected losses are in excess of thosefor which provisions for credit losses aremaintained. In addition to maturity andcorrelations, capital allocation is based uponseveral principal drivers of credit risk: exposureat default (or loan-equivalent amount), likelihoodof default, loss severity and market credit spread.Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio isbased upon product and other relevant risksegmentation. Actual segment level default andseverity experience are used to estimate unexpectedlosses for a one-year horizon at a confidence levelequivalent to the &#145;AA' solvency standard.Statistical results for certain segments or&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.portfolios are adjusted to ensure that capitalis consistent with external benchmarks, such assubordination levels on market transactions orcapital held at representative monolinecompetitors, where appropriate.Market risk capitalThe Firm calculates market risk capital guided bythe principle that capital should reflect the riskof loss in the value of portfolios and financialinstruments caused by adverse movements in marketvariables, such as interest and foreign exchangerates, credit spreads, securities prices andcommodities prices. Daily Value-at-Risk (&#147;VAR&#148;),monthly stress-test results and other factors areused to determine appropriate capital levels. TheFirm allocates market risk capital to each businesssegment according to a formula that weights thatsegment's VAR and stress-test exposures. See Marketrisk management on pages 77&#150;80 of this AnnualReport for more information about these market riskmeasures.Operational risk capitalCapital is allocated to the lines of business foroperational risk using a risk-based capitalallocation methodology which estimates operationalrisk on a bottom-up basis. The operational riskcapital model is based upon actual losses andpotential scenario-based stress losses, withadjustments to the capital calculation to reflectchanges in the quality of the control environmentor the use of risk-transfer products. The Firmbelieves the model is consistent with the new BaselII Framework and expects to propose it eventuallyfor qualification under the advanced measurementapproach for operational risk.Private equity risk capitalCapital is allocated to privately- andpublicly-held securities, third-party fundinvestments and commitments in the Private Equityportfolio to cover the potential loss associatedwith a decline in equity markets and related assetdevaluations.Regulatory capitalThe Firm's federal banking regulator, theFederal Reserve Board, establishes capitalrequirements, including well-capitalized standardsfor the consolidated financial holding company. TheOffice of the Comptroller of the Currency (&#147;OCC&#148;)establishes similar capital requirements andstandards for the Firm's national banks, includingJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.On December&nbsp;14, 2006, the federal bankingregulatory agencies announced an interim decisionthat SFAS 158 will not impact regulatory capital.Until further guidance is issued, any amountsincluded in Accumulated other comprehensive income(loss)&nbsp;within Stockholders' equity related to theadoption of SFAS 158 will be excluded fromregulatory capital. For further discussion of SFAS158, refer to Note 7 on pages 100&#150;105 of thisAnnual Report.In the first quarter of 2006, the federal bankingregulatory agencies issued a final rule thatprovides regulatory capital relief for certain cash-collateralized, securities-borrowedtransactions. The final rule, which becameeffective February&nbsp;22, 2006, also broadens thetypes of transactions qualifying for regulatorycapital relief under the interim rule. Adoption ofthe rule did not have a material effect on theFirm's capital ratios.On March&nbsp;1, 2005, the Federal Reserve Board issueda final rule, which became effective April&nbsp;11,2005, that continues the inclusion of trustpreferred capital debt securities in Tier 1 capital, subject tostricter quantitative limits and revisedqualitative standards, and broadens the definitionof restricted core capital elements. The ruleprovides for a five-year transition period. As aninternationally active bank holding company,JPMorgan Chase is subject to the rule's limitationon restricted core capital elements, includingtrust preferred capital debt securities, to 15% of total corecapital elements, net of goodwill less anyassociated deferred tax liability. At December&nbsp;31,2006, JPMorgan Chase's restricted core capitalelements were 15.1% of total core capital elements.The following tables show that JPMorgan Chasemaintained a well-capitalized position based uponTier 1 and Total capital ratios at December&nbsp;31, 2006and 2005.Tier 1 capital was $81.1&nbsp;billion at December31, 2006, compared with $72.5&nbsp;billion at December31, 2005, an increase of $8.6&nbsp;billion. The increasewas due primarily to Net income of $14.4&nbsp;billion,net issuances of common stock under the Firm'semployee stock based compensation plans of $3.8billion and $873&nbsp;million of additional qualifyingtrust preferred capital debt securities. Partially offsettingthese increases were changes in stockholders' equity net ofAccumulated other comprehensive income (loss)&nbsp;dueto dividends declared of $4.9&nbsp;billion, common sharerepurchases of $3.9&nbsp;billion, the redemption ofpreferred stock of $139&nbsp;million, a $1.2&nbsp;billionincrease in the deduction for goodwill and othernonqualifying intangibles and a $563&nbsp;millionreduction in qualifying minority interests.Additional information regarding the Firm's capitalratios and the federal regulatory capital standardsto which it is subject is presented in Note 26 onpages 129&#150;130 of this Annual Report.Basel IIThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervisionpublished the new Basel II Framework in 2004 in aneffort to update the original international bankcapital accord (&#147;Basel I&#148;), which has been ineffect since 1988. The goal of the Basel IIFramework is to make regulatory capital more risk-sensitive, and promote enhancedrisk management practices among large,internationally active banking organizations.U.S. banking regulators are in the process ofincorporating the Basel II Framework into theexisting risk-based capital requirements. JPMorganChase will be required to implement advancedmeasurement techniques in the U.S., commencing in2009, by employing internal estimates of certainkey risk drivers to derive capital requirements.Prior to its implementation of the new Basel IIFramework, JPMorgan Chase will be required todemonstrate to its U.S. bank supervisors that itsinternal criteria meet the relevant supervisorystandards. JPMorgan Chase expects to be incompliance within the established timelines withall relevant Basel II rules. During 2007 and 2008,the Firm will adopt Basel II rules in certainnon-U.S. jurisdictions, as required.DividendsThe Firm's common stock dividend policyreflects JPMorgan Chase's earnings outlook, desireddividend payout ratios, need to maintain anadequate capital level and alternative investmentopportunities. In 2006, JPMorgan Chase declaredquarterly cash dividends on its common stock of$0.34 per share. The Firm continues to target adividend payout ratio of 30-40% of net income overtime.&nbsp; &nbsp;The following table shows the commondividend payout ratio based upon reported Netincome:For information regarding restrictions onJPMorgan Chase's ability to pay dividends, seeNote 25 on page 129 of this Annual Report.Stock repurchasesOn March&nbsp;21, 2006, the Board of Directorsapproved a stock repurchase program that authorizesthe repurchase of up to $8&nbsp;billion of the Firm'scommon shares, which supercedes a $6&nbsp;billion stockrepurchase program approved in 2004. The $8&nbsp;billionauthorization includes shares to be repurchased tooffset issuances under the Firm's employeestock-based plans. The actual number of sharesrepurchased is subject to various factors,including: market conditions; legal considerationsaffecting the amount and timing of repurchaseactivity; the Firm's capital position (taking intoaccount goodwill and intangibles); internal capitalgeneration; and alternative potential investmentopportunities. The repurchase program does notinclude specific price targets or timetables; maybe executed through open market purchases orprivately negotiated transactions, or utilizingRule&nbsp;10b5-1 programs; and may be suspended at anytime.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2006, under therespective stock repurchase programs then ineffect, the Firm repurchased a total of 91&nbsp;millionshares for $3.9&nbsp;billion at an average price pershare of $43.41. Under the original $6&nbsp;billionstock repurchase program, during 2005, the Firmrepurchased 94&nbsp;million shares for $3.4&nbsp;billion atan average price per share of $36.46.As of December&nbsp;31, 2006, $5.2&nbsp;billion of authorizedrepurchase capacity remained under the current stockrepurchase program.The Firm has determined that it may, from time totime, enter into written trading plans under Rule10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 tofacilitate the repurchase of common stock inaccordance with the repurchase program. A Rule10b5-1 repurchase plan would allow the Firm torepurchase shares during periods when it would nototherwise be repurchasing common stock &#150; forexample, during internal trading &#147;black-outperiods.&#148; All purchases under a Rule&nbsp;10b5-1 planmust be made according to a predefined plan that isestablished when the Firm is not aware of materialnonpublic information.For additional information regarding repurchasesof the Firm's equity securities, see Part&nbsp;II, Item5, Market for registrant's common equity, relatedstockholder matters and issuer purchases of equitysecurities, on page 11 of JPMorgan Chase's 2006Form 10-K.OFF&#150;BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS&nbsp;Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several typesof off&#150;balance sheet arrangements, includingspecial purpose entities (&#147;SPEs&#148;), lines of creditand loan commitments. The principal uses of SPEsare to obtain sources of liquidity for JPMorganChase and its clients by securitizing financialassets, and to create other investment products forclients. These arrangements are an important partof the financial markets, providing marketliquidity by facilitating investors' access tospecific portfolios of assets and risks. Forexample, SPEs are integral to the markets formortgage-backed securities, commercial paper andother asset-backed securities.The basic SPE structure involves a company sellingassets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase ofthose assets by issuing securities to investors. Toinsulate investors from creditors of otherentities, including the seller of assets, SPEs aregenerally structured to be bankruptcy-remote.JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broadcategories: loan securitizations, multi-sellerconduits and client intermediation. Capital isheld, as deemed appropriate, against allSPE-related transactions and related exposures,such as derivative transactions and lending-relatedcommitments. For further discussion of SPEs and theFirm's accounting for these types of exposures, seeNote 1 on page 94, Note 15 on pages 118&#150;120 andNote 16 on pages 121&#150;123 of this Annual Report.The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stockto support any SPE transaction, and its policiesrequire that transactions with SPEs be conducted atarm's length and reflect market pricing. Consistentwith this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee ispermitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm isinvolved where such investment would violate theFirm's Code of Conduct. These rules prohibitemployees from self-dealing and acting on behalf ofthe Firm in transactions with which they or theirfamily have any significant financial interest.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, theFirm could be required to provide funding if theshort-term credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A. were downgraded below specific levels,primarily P-1, A-1 and F1 for Moody's, Standard &Poor's and Fitch, respectively. The amount ofthese liquidity commitments was $74.4&nbsp;billion and$71.3&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Alternatively, if JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A. were downgraded, the Firm could bereplaced by another liquidity provider in lieu ofproviding fundingunder the liquidity commitment, or, in certaincircumstances, could facilitate the sale orrefinancing of the assets in the SPE in order toprovide liquidity.Of the $74.4&nbsp;billion in liquidity commitments toSPEs at December&nbsp;31, 2006, $74.0&nbsp;billion wasincluded in the Firm's other unfunded commitmentsto extend credit and asset purchase agreements, asshown in the table on the following page. Of the $71.3&nbsp;billionof liquidity commitments to SPEs at December&nbsp;31,2005, $38.9&nbsp;billion was included in the Firm'sother unfunded commitments to extend credit andasset purchase agreements. Of these commitments,$356&nbsp;million and $32.4&nbsp;billion have been excludedfrom the table at December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005,respectively, as the underlying assets of the SPEshave been included on the Firm's Consolidatedbalance sheets due to the consolidation of certainmulti-seller conduits as required under FIN 46R.The decrease from the 2005&nbsp;year end is due to thedeconsolidation during the 2006 second quarter ofseveral multi-seller conduits administrated by theFirm. For further information, refer to Note 15 onpages 118&#150;120 of this Annual Report.The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEsarising from derivative transactions; thesetransactions are recorded at fair value on theFirm's Consolidated balance sheets with changesin fair value (i.e., mark-to-market (&#147;MTM&#148;) gainsand losses) recorded in Principal transactions.Such MTM gains and losses are not included in therevenue amounts reported in the following table.The following table summarizes certain revenueinformation related to consolidated andnonconsolidated variable interest entities (&#147;VIEs&#148;)with which the Firm has significant involvement,and qualifying SPEs (&#147;QSPEs&#148;). The revenue reportedin the table below primarily represents servicingand credit fee income. For further discussion ofVIEs and QSPEs, see Note 1, Note 14 and Note 15, onpages 94, 114&#150;118 and 118&#150;120, respectively, ofthis Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Off&#150;balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guaranteesJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-relatedfinancial instruments (e.g., commitments andguarantees) to meet the financing needs of itscustomers. The contractual amount of thesefinancial instruments represents the maximumpossible credit risk should the counterparty drawdown the commitment or the Firm be required tofulfill its obligation under the guarantee, and thecounterparty subsequently fail to perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of these commitments and guarantees expirewithout a default occurring or without being drawn.As a result, the total contractual amount of theseinstruments is not, in the Firm's view,representative of its actual future credit exposureor funding requirements. Further, certaincommitments, primarily related to consumerfinancings, are cancelable, upon notice, at theoption of the Firm. For further discussion oflending-related commitments and guarantees and theFirm's accounting for them, see Credit riskmanagement on pages 64&#150;76 and Note 29 on pages132&#150;134 of this Annual Report.Contractual cash obligationsIn the normal course of business, the Firmenters into various contractual obligations thatmay require future cash payments. Commitments forfuture cash expenditures primarily includecontracts to purchase future services and capitalexpenditures related to real estate&#150;relatedobligations and equipment.The accompanying table summarizes, by remainingmaturity, JPMorgan Chase's off&#150;balance sheetlending-related financial instruments andsignificant contractual cash obligations atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006. Contractual purchases andcapital expenditures in the table below reflect theminimum contractual obligation under legallyenforceable contracts with terms that are bothfixed and determinable. Excluded from the followingtable are a number of obligations to be settled incash, primarily in under one year. Theseobligations are reflected on the Firm'sConsolidated balance sheets and include Federalfunds purchased and securities sold underrepurchase agreements; Other borrowed funds;purchases of Debt and equity instruments;Derivative payables; and certain purchases ofinstruments that resulted in settlement failures.For discussion regarding Long-term debt and trustpreferred capital securities, see Note 19 on pages124&#150;125 of this Annual Report. For discussionregarding operating leases, see Note 27 on page 130of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk is an inherent part of JPMorgan Chase'sbusiness activities. The Firm's risk managementframework and governance structure are intended toprovide comprehensive controls and ongoingmanagement of the major risks inherent in itsbusiness activities. The Firm's ability toproperly identify, measure, monitor and reportrisk is critical to both its soundness andprofitability.There are eight major risk types identified in thebusiness activities of the Firm: liquidity risk,credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk,private equity risk, operational risk, legal andreputation risk, and fiduciary risk.Risk governanceThe Firm's risk governance structure starts witheach line of business being responsible formanaging its own risk. Each line of businessworks closely with Risk Management of the Firm,through its own risk committee and, in mostcases, its own chief risk officer. Each riskcommittee is responsible for decisions regardingthe business' risk strategy, policies andcontrols.Overlaying the line of business risk managementare five corporate functions with riskmanagement&#150;related responsibilities, includingthe Asset-Liability Committee, Treasury, ChiefInvestment Office, Office of the General Counseland Risk Management.The Asset-Liability Committee is responsible forapproving the Firm's liquidity policy, includingcontingency funding planning and exposure to SPEs(and any required liquidity support by the Firm ofsuch SPEs). The committee also oversees the Firm'scapital management and funds transfer pricingpolicy (through which lines of business &#147;transfer&#148;interest and foreign exchange risk to Treasury inthe Corporate segment). The Committee is composedof the Firm's Chief Financial Officer, Chief RiskOfficer, Chief Investment Officer, CorporateTreasurer and the Chief Financial Officers of eachline of business.Treasury and the Chief Investment Office areresponsible for measuring, monitoring, reportingand managing the Firm's liquidity, interest rateand foreign exchange risk.The Office of the General Counsel has oversightfor legal and reputation and fiduciary risks.Risk Management is responsible for providing afirmwide function of risk management and controls.Within Risk Management are units responsible forcredit risk, market risk, operational risk andprivate equity risk, as well as Risk ManagementServices and Risk Technology and Operations. RiskManagement Services is responsible for risk policyand methodology, risk reporting and risk education;and Risk Technology and Operations is responsiblefor building the information technologyinfrastructure used to monitor and manage risk.Risk Management is headed by the Firm's Chief RiskOfficer, who is a member of the Operating Committeeand reports to the Chief Executive Officer and theBoard of Directors, primarily through the Board'sRisk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. Theperson who filled the position of Chief RiskOfficer during 2006 retired at the end of the year.Until his replacement is named, the Firm's ChiefExecutive Officer is acting as the interim ChiefRisk Officer.In addition to the risk committees of the lines ofbusiness and the above-referenced corporatefunctions, the Firm also has an InvestmentCommittee, which oversees global merger andacquisition activities undertaken by JPMorganChase for its own investment account, that falloutside the scope of the Firm's private equity andother principal finance activities.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The Board of Directors exercises its oversightof risk management, principally through the Board'sRisk Policy Committee and Audit Committee. The RiskPolicy Committee oversees senior managementrisk-related responsibilities, including reviewingmanagement policies and performance against thesepolicies and related benchmarks. The AuditCommittee is responsible for oversightof guidelines and policies that govern the processby which risk assessment and management isundertaken. In addition, the Audit Committeereviews with management the system of internalcontrols and financial reporting that is reliedupon to provide reasonable assurance of compliancewith the Firm's operational risk managementprocesses.LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Liquidity risk arises from the general fundingneeds of the Firm's activities and in themanagement of its assets and liabilities. JPMorganChase's liquidity management framework is intendedto maximize liquidity access and minimize fundingcosts. Through active liquidity management the Firmseeks to preserve stable, reliable andcost-effective sources of funding. This accessenables the Firm to replace maturing obligationswhen due and fund assets at appropriate maturitiesand rates. To accomplish this, management uses avariety of measures to mitigate liquidity andrelated risks, taking into consideration marketconditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidityneeds and the desired maturity profile ofliabilities, among other factors.The three primary measures of the Firm's liquidity position include the following:Liquidity is managed so that, based upon themeasures described above, management believesthere is sufficient surplus liquidity.An extension of liquidity management is the Firm'scontingency funding plan. The goal of the plan isto ensure appropriate liquidity during normal andstress periods. The plan considers numeroustemporary and long-term stress scenarios whereaccess to unsecured funding is severely limited ornonexistent, taking into account both on&#150; andoff&#150;balance sheet exposures, separately evaluatingaccess to funds by the parent holding company,JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Chase Bank USA, N.A.Part of the Firm's contingency funding plan is itsratings downgrade analysis. For this analysis, theimpact of numerous rating agency downgradescenarios are considered.The various analytics used to manage the Firm'sliquidity and related risks rely on management'sjudgment regarding JPMorgan Chase's ability toliquidate assets or use assets as collateral forborrowings and take into account historical data onthe funding of loan commitments (for example,commercial paper back-up facilities), liquiditycommitments to SPEs, commitments with ratingtriggers and collateral posting requirements.GovernanceThe Firm's Asset-Liability Committee approves theFirm's liquidity policy and oversees the policy'sexecution. Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitoring, reporting and managing the Firm'sliquidity risk profile. Treasury formulates theFirm's liquidity targets and strategies; monitorsthe Firm's on&#150; and off&#150;balance sheet liquidityobligations; maintains contingency planning,including ratings downgrade stress testing; andidentifies and measures internal and externalliquidity warning signals to permit early detectionof liquidity issues.FundingSources of fundsConsistent with its liquidity management policy,the Firm has raised funds at the parent holdingcompany sufficient to cover its obligations andthose of its nonbank subsidiaries that mature overthe next 12&nbsp;months.As of December&nbsp;31, 2006, the Firm's liquidityposition remained strong based upon its liquiditymetrics. JPMorgan Chase's long-dated funding,including core liabilities, exceeded illiquidassets, and the Firm believes its obligations canbe met even if access to funding is impaired.The diversity of the Firm's funding sourcesenhances financial flexibility and limitsdependence on any one source, thereby minimizingthe cost of funds. The deposits held by the RFS,CB, TSS and AM lines of business are generally astable and consistent source of funding forJPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. As of December&nbsp;31, 2006,total deposits for the Firm were $639&nbsp;billion. Asignificant portion of the Firm's depositsare retail deposits, which are less sensitive to interest rate changes andtherefore are considered more stable thanmarket-based (i.e., wholesale) deposits. Inaddition to these deposits, the Firm benefits fromsubstantial liability balances originated by RFS,CB, TSS and AM through the normal course ofbusiness. These franchise-generated liabilitybalances are also a stable and consistent source offunding due to the nature of the businesses fromwhich they are generated. For a further discussionof deposit and liability balance trends, seeBusiness Segment Results and Balance Sheet Analysison pages 36&#150;52 and 55&#150;56, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Additional sources of funds include a variety ofboth short- and long-term instruments, includingfederal funds purchased, commercial paper, banknotes, long-term debt, and trust preferred capitaldebt securities. This funding is managed centrally,using regional expertise and local market access,to ensure active participation by the Firm in theglobal financial markets while maintainingconsistent global pricing. These markets serve as acost-effective and diversified source of funds andare a critical component of the Firm's liquiditymanagement. Decisions concerning the timing andtenor of accessing these markets are based uponrelative costs, general market conditions,prospective views of balance sheet growth and atargeted liquidity profile.Finally, funding flexibility is provided by theFirm's ability to access the repurchase and assetsecuritization markets. These markets are evaluatedon an ongoing basis to achieve an appropriatebalance of secured and unsecured funding. Theability to securitize loans, and the associatedgains on those securitizations, are principallydependent upon the credit quality and yields of theassets securitized and are generally not dependentupon the credit ratings of the issuing entity.Transactions between the Firm and itssecuritization structures are reflected in JPMorgan Chase's consolidatedfinancial statements and notes to the consolidatedfinancial statements; these relationships includeretained interests in securitization trusts,liquidity facilities and derivative transactions.For further details, see Off&#150;balance sheetarrangements and contractual cash obligations andNotes 14 and 29 on pages 59&#150;60, 114&#150;118 and132&#150;134, respectively, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;IssuanceContinued strong foreign investor participation inthe global corporate markets allowed JPMorgan Chaseto identify attractive opportunities globally tofurther diversify its funding and capital sources.During 2006, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately$56.7&nbsp;billion of long-term debt and trust preferredcapital debt securities. These issuances wereoffset partially by $34.3&nbsp;billion of long-term debtand trust preferred capital debt securities thatmatured or were redeemed, and by the Firm'sredemption of $139&nbsp;million of preferred stock. Inaddition, in 2006 the Firm securitizedapproximately $16.8&nbsp;billion of residential mortgageloans and $9.7&nbsp;billion of credit card loans,resulting in pretax gains on securitizations of $85million and $67&nbsp;million, respectively. In addition,the Firm securitized approximately $2.4&nbsp;billion ofautomobile loans resulting in an insignificantgain. For a further discussion of loansecuritizations, see Note 14 on pages 114&#150;118 ofthis Annual Report.Inconnection with the issuance of certain of its trust preferredcapital debt securities, the Firm has entered into ReplacementCapital Covenants (&#147;RCCs&#148;) granting certain rights to theholder of &#147;covered debt,&#148; as defined in the RCCs, thatprohibit the repayment, redemption or purchase of the trust preferredcapital debt securities except, with limited exceptions, to the extentthat JPMorgan Chase has received specified amounts of proceeds fromthe sale of certain qualifying securities. Currently the Firm'scovered debt is its 5.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable InterestDebentures, Series&nbsp;O, due 2035. For more information regardingthese covenants, see the Forms&nbsp;8-K filed by the Firm onAugust&nbsp;17, 2006, September&nbsp;28, 2006 and February&nbsp;2,2007.Cash FlowsCash Flows from Operating ActivitiesFor the years ended December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, netcash used in operating activities was $49.6&nbsp;billionand $30.2&nbsp;billion, respectively. Net cash was usedto support the Firm's lending and capital marketsactivities, as well as to support loans originatedor purchased with an initial intent to sell.JPMorgan Chase's operating assets and liabilitiesvary significantly in the normal course of businessdue to the amount and timing of cash flows.Management believes cash flows from operations,available cash balances and short- and long-termborrowings will be sufficient to fund the Firm'soperating liquidity needs.Cash Flows from Investing ActivitiesThe Firm's investing activities primarily includeoriginating loans to be held to maturity, otherreceivables, and the available-for-sale investmentportfolio. For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2006,net cash of $99.6&nbsp;billion was used in investingactivities, primarily due to increased loans in thewholesale portfolio, mainly in the IB, reflectingan increase in capital markets activity, as well asorganic growth in CB. On the consumer side,increases in CS loans reflected strong organicgrowth, the acquisitions of private-label creditcard portfolios and the 2006 first-quarter acquisition ofCollegiate Funding Services, offset partially bycredit card securitization activity and a declinein auto loans and leases. Cash also was used tofund the increase in the Treasury investmentsecurities portfolio, primarily in connection withrepositioning of the Firm's portfolio to manageexposure to interest rates.For the year ended December&nbsp;31, 2005, net cash of$12.9&nbsp;billion was used in investing activities,primarily attributable to growth in consumer loans,primarily home equity and in CS, reflecting growthin new account originations and the acquisition ofthe Sears Canada credit card business, offsetpartially by securitization activity and a declinein auto loans reflecting a difficult auto lendingmarket. Net cash was generated by the Treasuryinvestment securities portfolio primarily frommaturities of securities, as purchases and sales ofsecurities essentially offset each other.Cash Flows from Financing ActivitiesThe Firm's financing activities primarily includethe issuance of debt and receipt of customerdeposits. JPMorgan Chase pays quarterly dividendson its common stock and has an ongoing stockrepurchase program. In 2006, net cash provided byfinancing activities was $152.7&nbsp;billion due togrowth in deposits, reflecting the ongoingexpansion of the retail branch distribution networkand higher wholesale business volumes; and net newissuances of Long-term debt and trust preferredcapital debt securities, offset partially by thepayment of cash dividends and stock repurchases.In 2005, net cash provided by financing activitieswas $45.1&nbsp;billion due to growth in deposits,reflecting, on the retail side, new accountacquisitions and the ongoing expansion of thebranch distribution network, and higher wholesalebusiness volumes; and net new issuances ofLong-term debt and trust preferred capital debtsecurities, offset partially by the payment of cashdividends and stock repurchases.Credit ratingsThe credit ratings of JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and each of its significantbanking subsidiaries, as of December&nbsp;31, 2006, were as follows:On February&nbsp;14, 2007, S&P raised the seniorlong-term debt ratings on JPMorgan Chase & Co. andthe operating bank subsidiaries to AA- and AA,respectively. Additionally, S&P raised theshort-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase & Co. toA-1&#043;. Similarly, on February&nbsp;16, 2007, Fitch raised thesenior long-term debt rating on JPMorgan Chase&nbsp;& Co. andoperating bank subsidiaries to AA-. Fitch also raised theshort-term debt rating of JPMorgan Chase&nbsp;& Co. to F1+. The cost and availability of unsecuredfinancing are influenced by credit ratings. Areduction in these ratings could have an adverseaffect on the Firm's access to liquidity sources,increase the cost of funds, trigger additionalcollateral requirements and decrease the number ofinvestors and counterparties willing to lend.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratingsinclude a stable and diverse earnings stream,strong capital ratios, strong credit quality andrisk management controls, diverse funding sourcesand disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures.If the Firm's ratings were downgraded by one notch,the Firm estimates the incremental cost of fundsand the potential loss of funding to be negligible.Additionally, the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for VIEs and otherthird-party commitments would not be material. Inthe current environment, the Firm believes adowngrade is unlikely. For additional informationon the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on thefunding requirements for VIEs, and on derivativesand collateral agreements, see Special-purposeentities on page 59 and Ratings profile ofderivative receivables mark-to-market (&#147;MTM&#148;) onpage 71, of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor orcounterparty default. The Firm provides credit (forexample, through loans, lending-related commitmentsand derivatives) to customers of all sizes, fromlarge corporate clients to the individual consumer.The Firm manages the risk/reward relationship ofeach credit and discourages the retention of assetsthat do not generate a positive return above thecost of risk-adjusted capital. The majority of theFirm's wholesale syndicated loan originations(primarily to IB clients) continues to bedistributed into the marketplace, with residualholds by the Firm averaging less than 10%.Wholesale loans generated by CB and AM aregenerally retained on the balance sheet. Withregard to the consumer credit market, the Firmfocuses on creating a portfolio that is diversifiedfrom both a product and a geographic perspective.Within the mortgage business, originated loans areretained on the balance sheet as well assecuritized and sold selectively to U.S. governmentagencies and U.S. government-sponsored enterprises;the latter category of loans is routinelyclassified as held-for-sale.Credit risk organizationCredit risk management is overseen by the ChiefRisk Officer. The Firm's credit risk managementgovernance consists of the following primaryfunctions:Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through lendingand capital markets activities. Credit riskmanagement works in partnership with the businesssegments in identifying and aggregating exposuresacross all lines of business.Risk measurementTo measure credit risk, the Firm employs severalmethodologies for estimating the likelihood ofobligor or counterparty default. Losses generatedby consumer loans are more predictable thanwholesale losses, but are subject to cyclical andseasonal factors. Although the frequency of loss ishigher on consumer loans than on wholesale loans,the severity of loss is typically lower and moremanageable on a portfolio basis. As a result ofthese differences, methodologies vary depending oncertain factors, including type of asset (e.g.,consumer installment versus wholesale loan), riskmeasurement parameters (e.g., delinquency statusand credit bureau score versus wholesale riskrating) and risk management and collectionprocesses (e.g., retail collection center versus centrally managed workoutgroups). Credit risk measurement is based upon theamount of exposure should the obligor or thecounterparty default, the probability of defaultand the loss severity given a default event. Basedupon these factors and related market-based inputs,the Firm estimates both probable and unexpectedlosses for the wholesale and consumer portfolios.Probable losses, reflected in the Provision forcredit losses, primarily are based upon statisticalestimates of credit losses over time, anticipatedas a result of obligor or counterparty default.However, probable losses are not the soleindicators of risk. If losses were entirelypredictable, the probable loss rate could befactored into pricing and covered as a normal andrecurring cost of doing business. Unexpectedlosses, reflected in the allocation of credit riskcapital, represent the potential volatility ofactual losses relative to the probable level oflosses. (Refer to Capital management on pages57&#150;59 of this Annual Report for a furtherdiscussion of the credit risk capital methodology.)Risk measurement for the wholesale portfolio isassessed primarily on a risk-rated basis; for the consumer portfolio, it isassessed primarily on a credit-scored basis.Risk-rated exposureFor portfolios that are risk-rated, probable andunexpected loss calculations are based uponestimates of probability of default and loss givendefault. Probability of default is the expecteddefault calculated on an obligor basis. Loss givendefault is an estimate of losses that are basedupon collateral and structural support for eachcredit facility. Calculations and assumptions arebased upon management information systems andmethodologies which are under continual review.Risk ratings are assigned and reviewed on anongoing basis by Credit Risk Management andrevised, if needed, to reflect the borrowers'current risk profiles and the related collateraland structural positions.Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally held in RFSand CS), probable loss is based upon a statisticalanalysis of inherent losses over discrete periodsof time. Probable losses are estimated usingsophisticated portfolio modeling, credit scoringand decision-support tools to project credit risksand establish underwriting standards. In addition,common measures of credit quality derived fromhistorical loss experience are used to predictconsumer losses. Other risk characteristicsevaluated include recent loss experience in theportfolios, changes in origination sources,portfolio seasoning, loss severity and underlyingcredit practices, including charge-off policies.These analyses are applied to the Firm's currentportfolios in order to forecast delinquencies andseverity of losses, which determine the amount ofprobable losses. These factors and analyses areupdated on a quarterly basis.Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices thatare designed to preserve the independence andintegrity of decision-making and ensure creditrisks are assessed accurately, approved properly,monitored regularly and managed actively at boththe transaction and portfolio levels. The policyframework establishes credit approval authorities,concentration limits, risk-rating methodologies,portfolio-review parameters and guidelines formanagement of distressed exposure. Wholesale creditrisk is monitored regularly on both an aggregateportfolio level and on an individual customerbasis. For consumer credit risk, the key focusitems are trends and concentrations at theportfolio level, where potential problems can beremedied through changes in underwriting policies andportfolio guidelines. Consumer Credit RiskManagement monitors trends against businessexpectations and industry benchmarks. In order tomeet credit risk management objectives, the Firmseeks to maintain a risk profile that is diverse interms of borrower, product type, industry andgeographic concentration. Additional management ofthe Firm's exposure is accomplished through loansyndication and participations, loan sales,securitizations, credit derivatives, use of masternetting agreements and collateral and otherrisk-reduction techniques.Risk reportingTo enable monitoring of credit risk anddecision-making, aggregate credit exposure, creditmetric forecasts, hold-limit exceptions and riskprofile changes are reported regularly to seniorcredit risk management. Detailed portfolioreporting of industry, customer and geographicconcentrations occurs monthly, and theappropriateness of the allowance for credit lossesis reviewed by senior management at least on aquarterly basis. Through the risk reporting andgovernance structure, credit risk trends and limitexceptions are provided regularly to, and discussedwith, the Operating Committee.&nbsp; &nbsp;2006 Credit risk overviewThe wholesale portfolio exhibited creditstability during 2006. There was substantial growthin wholesale lending as a result of increasedcapital markets&#150;related activity, offset bydecreases in nonperforming loans and criticizedexposure of $601&nbsp;million and $591&nbsp;million,respectively. In 2006, the Firm also madesignificant strides in its multiyear initiative toreengineer its wholesale credit risk systemsinfrastructure. Several enhancements wereincorporated into the Firm's operatinginfrastructure in 2006. Overall, the initiative hasenhanced management of credit risk; timeliness andaccuracy of reporting; support of clientrelationships; allocation of economic capital; andcompliance with Basel II initiatives. The Firm ison target to substantially complete the initiativeby year-end 2007.Consumer credit performance generally was stable in2006. CS adopted the FFIEC higher minimum paymentrequirements, which initially resulted in higherpayment rates than historically experienced, albeitwith losses less severe than initially anticipated.Loans impacted by Hurricane Katrina generally haveperformed better than initially projected, but haveexperienced longer resolution timeframes,especially where real estate and business bankingassets areinvolved. The Allowance for loan losses relatedto Hurricane Katrina was reduced by $121&nbsp;million in2006 as a result of the better than anticipatedperformance. Bankruptcy reform legislation becameeffective on October&nbsp;17, 2005. This legislationprompted a &#147;rush to file&#148; effect that resulted in aspike in bankruptcy filings and increased 2005credit losses, predominantly in CS. As expected,following this spike in filings the Firmexperienced lower credit card net charge-offs in2006, as the record levels of bankruptcy filings inthe fourth quarter of 2005 are believed to haveincluded bankruptcy filings that would haveoccurred in 2006.In 2006, management of the consumer segmentcontinued to focus on portfolios providing the mostappropriate risk/reward relationship while keepingwithin the Firm's desired risk tolerance. Duringthe past year, the majority of the new sub-primemortgage production was sold or classified asheld-for-sale. In addition, a portion of thesubprime mortgage portfolio was transferred intothe held-for-sale account. The Firm also continued a de-emphasis of vehiclefinance leasing. The Firm experienced growth inmany core consumer lending products including homeequity, credit cards, education, and businessbanking reflecting a focus on the prime creditquality segment of the market.CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;The following table presents JPMorgan Chase'scredit portfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005.Total credit exposure at December&nbsp;31, 2006,increased by $198.7&nbsp;billion from December&nbsp;31,2005, reflecting an increase of $80.0&nbsp;billion inthe wholesale credit portfolio and $118.7&nbsp;billionin the consumer credit portfolio as furtherdescribed in the following pages.In the table below, reported loans include all HFSloans, which are carried at the lower of cost orfair value with changes in value recorded inNoninterest revenue. However, these HFS loans areexcluded from the average loan balances used forthe net charge-off rate calculations.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.WHOLESALE CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;As of December&nbsp;31, 2006, wholesale exposure(IB, CB, TSS and AM) increased by $80.0&nbsp;billionfrom December&nbsp;31, 2005, due to increases inlending-related commitments of $70.3&nbsp;billion, Loansof $33.6&nbsp;billion, and Derivative receivables of$5.8&nbsp;billion, partially offset by a decrease of$29.7&nbsp;billion in Interests in purchasedreceivables. During the second quarter of 2006,certain multi-seller conduits that the Firmadministers were deconsolidated, resulting in adecrease of $29&nbsp;billion in Interests in purchasedreceivables, offset by a related increase of $33billion in lending-related commitments. For a moredetailed discussion of the deconsolidation, referto Note 15 on pages 118&#150;120 of this Annual Report.The remainder of the increase in Loans andlending-related commitments was primarily in theIB, reflecting an increase in capitalmarkets&#150;related activity, including financingsassociated with client acquisitions,securitizations and loan syndications.&nbsp; &nbsp;During both 2006 and 2005, there were no netcharge-offs for Derivative receivables, Interestsin purchased receivables or lending-relatedcommitments.Net recoveries do not include gains from sales ofnonperforming loans that were sold from the creditportfolio (as shown in the following table). Gainsfrom these sales during 2006 and 2005 were $72million and $67&nbsp;million, respectively, and arereflected in Noninterest revenue.The following table presents summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesaleportfolio as of December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005. The ratings scale is based upon the Firm's internalrisk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry concentrationThe Firm focuses on the management and thediversification of its industry concentrations. AtDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, the top 10 industries remainedunchanged from December&nbsp;31, 2005. The increase inBanks and finance compa-nies, Utilities, Asset managers, and Securitiesfirms and exchanges reflects the overall growthin wholesale exposure. Below are summaries of thetop 10 industry concentrations as of December&nbsp;31,2006 and 2005.Wholesale credit exposure &#150; selected industry concentration&nbsp; &nbsp;Wholesale criticized exposureExposures deemed criticized generally represent aratings profile similar to a rating of CCC&#043;/Caa1and lower, as defined by Standard & Poor's/Moody's.The criticized component of the portfolio decreasedto $5.7&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006, from $6.2billion at year-end 2005. The decline resulted fromupgrades, repayments and reductions in wholesalenonperforming loans as shown on page 67 of thisAnnual Report.At December&nbsp;31, 2006, Healthcare, Agriculture/papermanufacturing, Business services, andChemicals/plastics moved into the top 10 ofwholesale criticized exposure, replacing Telecomservices, Airlines, Machinery and equipmentmanufacturing, and Building materials/construction.Wholesale criticized exposure &#150; industry concentrationsWholesale selected industry discussionPresented below is a discussion of severalindustries to which the Firm has significantexposure, as well as industries the Firmcontinues to monitor because of actual orpotential credit concerns. For additionalinformation, refer to the tables above and on thepreceding page.Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm usesderivative instruments to meet the needs ofcustomers; to generate revenues through tradingactivities; to manage exposure to fluctuations ininterest rates, currencies and other markets; andto manage the Firm's credit exposure. For furtherdiscussion of derivative contracts, see Note 28 onpages 131&#150;132 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the net derivativereceivables MTM for the periods presented.Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market(&#147;MTM&#148;)The amount of Derivative receivables reported on the Consolidatedbalance sheets of $56&nbsp;billion and $50&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, is the amount of themark-to-market (&#147;MTM&#148;) or fair value of the derivativecontracts after giving effect to legally enforceable master nettingagreements and cash collateral held by the Firm and represents thecost to the Firm to replace the contracts at current market ratesshould the counterparty default. However, in Management's view,the appropriate measure of current credit risk should also reflectadditional liquid securities held as collateral by the Firm of$7&nbsp;billion and $6&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006 and2005, respectively, resulting in total exposure, net of allcollateral, of $49&nbsp;billion and $44&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.The Firm also holds additional collateral delivered by clients at theinitiation of transactions, but this collateral does not reduce thecredit risk of the derivative receivables in the table above. Thisadditional collateral secures potential exposure that could arise inthe derivatives portfolio should the MTM of the client'stransactions move in the Firm's favor. As of December&nbsp;31,2006 and 2005, the Firm held $12&nbsp;billion and $10&nbsp;billion,respectively, of this additional collateral. The derivativereceivables MTM, net of all collateral, also does not include othercredit enhancements in the forms of letters of credit and suretyreceivables.While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of the derivative receivablesdoes not capture the potential future variabilityof that credit exposure. To capture the potentialfuture variability of credit exposure, the Firmcalculates, on a client-by-client basis, threemeasures of potential derivatives-related creditloss: Peak, Derivative Risk Equivalent (&#147;DRE&#148;) andAverage exposure (&#147;AVG&#148;). These measures allincorporate netting and collateral benefits, whereapplicable.Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extrememeasure of exposure calculated at a 97.5%confidence level. However, the total potentialfuture credit risk embedded in the Firm'sderivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of allPeak client credit risks. This is because, at theportfolio level, credit risk is reduced by the factthat when offsetting transactions are done withseparate counter-parties, only one of the twotrades can generate a credit loss, even if bothcounterparties were to default simultaneously. TheFirm refers to this effect as marketdiversification, and the Market-Diversified Peak(&#147;MDP&#148;) measure is a portfolio aggregation ofcounterparty Peak measures, representing themaximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level thatwould occur if all counterparties defaulted underany one given market scenario and time frame.Derivative Risk Equivalent exposure is ameasure that expresses the riskiness of derivativeexposure on a basis intended to be equivalent tothe riskiness of loan exposures. The measurement isdone by equating the unexpected loss in aderivative counterparty exposure (which takes intoconsideration both the loss volatility and thecredit rating of the counterparty) with theunexpected loss in a loan exposure (which takesinto consideration only the credit rating of thecounterparty). DRE is a less extreme measure ofpotential credit loss than Peak and is the primarymeasure used by the Firm for credit approval ofderivative transactions.Finally, AVG is a measure ofthe expected MTM value of the Firm's derivativereceivables at future time periods, including thebenefit of collateral. AVG exposure over the totallife of the derivative contract is used as theprimary metric for pricingpurposes and is used to calculate credit capitaland the Credit Valuation Adjustment (&#147;CVA&#148;), asfurther described below. Average exposure was $36billion at both December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005,compared with derivative receivables MTM, net ofall collateral, of $49&nbsp;billion and $44&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.The graph below shows exposure profiles toderivatives over the next 10&nbsp;years as calculatedby the MDP, DRE and AVG metrics. All threemeasures generally show declining exposure afterthe first year, if no new trades were added to theportfolio.Exposure profile of derivatives measures&nbsp; &nbsp;The MTM value of the Firm's derivativereceivables incorporates an adjustment, the CVA, toreflect the credit quality of counterparties. TheCVA is based upon the Firm's AVG to a counterpartyand the counterparty's credit spread in the creditderivatives market. The primary components ofchanges in CVA are credit spreads, new dealactivity or unwinds, and changes in the underlyingmarket environment. The Firm believes that activerisk management is essential to controlling thedynamic credit risk in the derivatives portfolio.The Firm risk manages exposure to changes in CVA byentering into credit derivative transactions, aswell as interest rate, foreign exchange, equity andcommodity derivative transactions.The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm's Derivative receivables MTM, net ofother liquid securities collateral, for the dates indicated:Ratings profile ofderivative receivables MTMThe Firm actively pursues the use of collateralagreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk inderivatives. The percentage of the Firm'sderivatives transactions subject to collateralagreements decreased slightly, to 80% as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, from 81% at December&nbsp;31, 2005.The Firm posted $27&nbsp;billion of collateral as ofboth December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005. Certain derivativeand collateral agreements include provisions thatrequire the counterparty and/or the Firm, uponspecified downgrades in their respective creditratings, to post collateral for the benefit of theother party. As of December&nbsp;31, 2006, the impact ofa single-notch ratings downgrade to JPMorgan ChaseBank, N.A., from its rating of AA- to A&#043; atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, would have required $1.1&nbsp;billionof additional collateral to be posted by the Firm;the impact of a six-notch ratings downgrade (fromAA- to BBB-) would have required $3.1&nbsp;billion ofadditional collateral.Certain derivative contracts also provide fortermination of the contract, generally upon adowngrade of either the Firm or the counterparty,at the then-existing MTM value of the derivativecontracts.Credit derivativesThe following table presents the Firm'snotional amounts of credit derivatives protectionpurchased and sold by the respective businesses asof December&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005:Credit derivatives positionsIn managing wholesale credit exposure, the Firmpurchases single-name and portfolio creditderivatives; this activity does not reduce thereported level of assets on the balance sheet orthe level of reported off&#150;balance sheetcommitments. The Firm also diversifies exposures byproviding (i.e., selling) credit protection, whichincreases exposure to industries or clients wherethe Firm has little or no client-related exposure.This activity is not material to the Firm's overallcredit exposure.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.JPMorgan Chase has limited counterpartyexposure as a result of credit derivativestransactions. Of the $55.6&nbsp;billion of totalDerivative receivables MTM at December&nbsp;31, 2006,approximately $5.7&nbsp;billion, or 10%, was associatedwith credit derivatives, before the benefit ofliquid securities collateral.Dealer/clientAt December&nbsp;31, 2006, the total notional amountof protection purchased and sold in thedealer/client business increased $2.4 trillion fromyear-end 2005 as a result of increased trade volumein the market. This business has a mismatch betweenthe total notional amounts of protection purchasedand sold. However, in the Firm's view, the riskpositions are largely matched when securities usedto risk-manage certain derivative positions aretaken into consideration and the notional amountsare adjusted to a duration-based equivalent basisor to reflect different degrees of subordination intranched structures.Credit portfolio management activitiesUse of single-name and portfolio credit derivativesThe credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chasefor credit portfolio management activities do notqualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, andtherefore, effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 isnot performed. These derivatives are reported atfair value, with gains and losses recognized inPrincipal transactions. The MTM value incorporatesboth the cost of credit derivative premiums andchanges in value due to movement in spreads andcredit events; in contrast, the loans andlending-related commitments being risk-managed areaccounted for on an accrual basis. Loan interestand fees are generally recognized in Net interestincome, and impairment is recognized in theProvision for credit losses. This asymmetry inaccounting treatment, between loans andlending-related commitments and the creditderivatives utilized in portfolio managementactivities, causes earnings volatility that is notrepresentative, in the Firm's view, of the truechanges in value of the Firm's overall creditexposure. The MTM related to the Firm's creditderivatives used for managing credit exposure, aswell as the MTM related to the CVA, which reflectsthe credit quality of derivatives counterpartyexposure, are included in the table below. Theseresults can vary from year to year due to marketconditions that impact specific positions in theportfolio.The Firm also actively manages wholesale creditexposure through loan and commitment sales. During2006, 2005 and 2004, the Firm sold $3.1&nbsp;billion,$4.0&nbsp;billion and $5.9&nbsp;billion of loans andcommitments, respectively, recognizing gains(losses)&nbsp;of $73&nbsp;million, $76&nbsp;million and ($8)million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Thegains include gains on sales of nonperforming loansas discussed on page 67 of this Annual Report.These activities are not related to the Firm'ssecuritization activities, which are undertaken forliquidity and balance sheet management purposes.For a further discussion of securitizationactivity, see Liquidity Risk Management and Note 14on pages 62&#150;63 and 114&#150;118, respectively, of thisAnnual Report.Lending-related commitmentsThe contractual amount of wholesalelending-related commitments was $391.4&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, compared with $321.1&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2005. See page 66 of this AnnualReport for an explanation of the increase inexposure. In the Firm's view, the total contractualamount of these instruments is not representativeof theFirm's actual credit risk exposure or fundingrequirements. In determining the amount of creditrisk exposure the Firm has to wholesalelending-related commitments, which is used as thebasis for allocating credit risk capital to theseinstruments, the Firm has established a&#147;loan-equivalent&#148; amount for each commitment; thisamount represents the portion of the unusedcommitment or other contingent exposure that isexpected, based upon average portfolio historicalexperience, to become outstanding in the event of adefault by an obligor. The loan-equivalent amountof the Firm's lending-related commitments was $212billion and $178&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2006and 2005, respectively.Emergingmarkets country exposureThe Firm has a comprehensiveinternal process for measuring and managing exposures and risk inemerging markets countries &#150; defined as those countriespotentially vulnerable to sovereign events. As of December&nbsp;31,2006, based upon its internal methodology,the Firm's exposure to any individual emerging-markets country was notsignificant, in that total exposure to any such country did notexceed 0.75% of the Firm's total assets. In evaluating andmanaging its exposures to emerging markets countries, the Firm takesinto consideration all credit-related lending, trading, andinvestment activities, whether cross-border or locally funded.Exposure amounts are then adjusted for credit enhancements (e.g.,guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties locatedoutside the country, if the enhancements fully cover the country riskas well as the credit risk. For information regarding theFirm's cross-border exposure, based upon guidelines of the FederalFinancial Institutions Examination Council (&#147;FFIEC&#148;),see Part&nbsp;1, Item&nbsp;1,Loan portfolio, Cross-border outstandings, on page&nbsp;155, of theFirm's Annual Report on Form&nbsp;10-K for the year endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2006.&nbsp; &nbsp;CONSUMER CREDIT PORTFOLIO&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's consumer portfolio consistsprimarily of residential mortgages, home equityloans, credit cards, auto loans and leases,education loans and business banking loans andreflects the benefit of diversification from both aproduct and a geographic perspective. The primaryfocus is serving the prime consumer credit market.There are no products in the real estate portfoliosthat result innegative amortization. However, RFS offers HomeEquity lines of credit and Mortgage loans withinterest-only payment options to predominantlyprime borrowers. The Firm actively manages itsconsumer credit operation. Ongoing efforts includecontinual review and enhancement of creditunderwriting criteria and refinement of pricing andrisk management models.The following table presents managed consumer credit&#150;related information for the dates indicated:Consumer portfolioTotal managed consumer loans as of December31, 2006, were $366.3&nbsp;billion, up from $339.6billion at year-end 2005 reflecting growth in mostconsumer portfolios. Consumer lending-relatedcommitments increased by 14%, to $747.5&nbsp;billion atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, primarily reflecting growth incredit cards and home equity lines of credit. Thefollowing discussion relates to the specific loanand lending-related categories within the consumerportfolio.Retail Financial Services:Average RFS loan balances for 2006 were $203.9billion. The net charge-off rate for retail loansin 2006 was 0.31%, which was flat compared withthe prior year, reflecting stable credit trends inmost consumer lending portfolios. New loansoriginated in 2006 primarily reflect high creditquality consistentwith management's focus on prime and near-primecredit market segmentation. The Firm regularlyevaluates market conditions and the overalleconomic returns of new originations and makes aninitial determination of whether to classifyspecific new originations as held-for-investment orheld-for-sale. The Firm also periodically evaluatesthe overall economic returns of itsheld-for-investment loan portfolio under prevailingmarket conditions to determine whether to retain orsell loans in the portfolio. When it is determinedthat a loan that was previously classified asheld-for-investment will be sold it is transferredinto a held-for-sale account. Held-for-sale loansareaccounted for at the lower of cost or fair value,with changes in value recorded in Noninterestrevenue.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Home equity: Home equity loans at December&nbsp;31,2006, were $85.7&nbsp;billion, an increase of $11.9billion from year-end 2005. Growth in the portfolioreflected organic growth, as well as The Bank ofNew York transaction. The geographic distributionis well-diversified as shown in the table below.Mortgage: Mortgage loans at December&nbsp;31, 2006,were $59.7&nbsp;billion. Mortgage receivables as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, reflected an increase of $709million from the prior year. Although the Firmprovides mortgage loansto the full spectrum of credit borrowers, morethan 75% of RFS' mortgage loans on the balancesheet are to prime borrowers. In addition, theFirm sells or securitizes virtually all fixed-ratemortgage originations, as well as a portion of itsadjustable rate originations. As a result, theportfolio of residential mortgage loansheld-for-investment consists primarily ofadjustable rate products. The geographicdistribution is well-diversified as shown in thetable below.Consumer real estate loans by geographic locationAuto loans and leases: As of December&nbsp;31, 2006,Auto loans and leases decreased to $41.0&nbsp;billionfrom $46.1&nbsp;billion at year-end 2005. The decreasein outstanding loans was caused primarily by thede-emphasis of vehicle finance leasing, whichcomprised $1.7&nbsp;billion of outstanding loans as ofDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, down from $4.3&nbsp;billion in theprior year. The Auto loan portfolio reflects a highconcentration of prime and near-prime qualitycredits.All other loans: All other loans primarily includebusiness banking loans (which are highlycollateralized loans, often with personal loanguarantees), Education loans and communitydevelopment loans. As of December&nbsp;31, 2006, Otherloans increased to $27.1&nbsp;billion compared with$18.4&nbsp;billion at year-end 2005. This increase isdue primarily to an increase in education loans asa result of the acquisition of Collegiate FundingServices. Loan balances also increased in Businessbanking primarily as a result of The Bank of NewYork transaction.Card ServicesJPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolioon a managed basis, which includes credit cardreceivables on the consolidated balance sheet andthose receivables sold to investors throughsecuritization. Managed credit card receivableswere $152.8&nbsp;billion at December&nbsp;31, 2006, anincrease of $10.6&nbsp;billion from year-end 2005,reflecting organic growth and acquisitions,partially offset by higher customer payment rates.The managed credit card net charge-off ratedecreased to 3.33% for 2006, from 5.21% in 2005.This decrease was due primarily to lowerbankruptcy-related net charge-offs. The 30-daydelinquency rates increased to 3.13% at December31, 2006, from 2.79% at December&nbsp;31, 2005,primarily driven by accelerated loss recognition ofdelinquent accounts in 2005, as a result of the2005 bankruptcy reform legislation. The managedcredit card portfolio continues to reflect awell-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S.geographic diversification.&nbsp; &nbsp;ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses isintended to cover probable credit losses, includinglosses where the asset is not specificallyidentified or the size of the loss has not beenfully determined. At least quarterly, the allowancefor credit losses is reviewed by the Chief RiskOfficer, the Chief Financial Officer and theController of the Firm, and discussed with the RiskPolicy and Audit Committees of the Board ofDirectors of the Firm. The allowance is reviewedrelative to the risk profile of the Firm's creditportfolio and current economic conditions and isadjusted if, in management's judgment, changes arewarranted. The allowance includes an asset-specificcom-ponent and a formula-based component, the latter ofwhich consists of a statistical calculation andadjustments to the statistical calculation. Forfurther discussion of the components of theallowance for credit losses, see Criticalaccounting estimates used by the Firm on page 83and Note 13 on pages 113&#150;114 of this AnnualReport. At December&nbsp;31, 2006, management deemed theallowance for credit losses to be appropriate(i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that areinherent in the portfolio, including losses thatare not specifically identified or for which thesize of the loss has not yet been fullydetermined).Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.The Allowance for credit losses increased by$313&nbsp;million from December&nbsp;31, 2005, primarily dueto activity in the wholesale portfolio. New lendingactivity in IB and CB was offset partially by lowerwholesale nonperforming loans. Additionally, therewas a release of $157&nbsp;million of Allowance for loanlosses related to Hurricane Katrina in the consumerand wholesale portfolios.Excluding held-for-sale loans, the Allowance forloan losses represented 1.70% of loans at December31, 2006, compared with 1.84% at December&nbsp;31,2005. The wholesale component of the allowanceincreased to $2.7&nbsp;billion as of December&nbsp;31, 2006,from $2.5&nbsp;billion at year-end 2005, due to loangrowth in the IB and CB, including the acquisitionof The Bank of New York loan portfolio. Theconsumer allowance decreased $69&nbsp;million, whichincluded a release of $98&nbsp;million in CS, partiallyoffset by a $29&nbsp;million build in RFS. The Allowance release byCS was primarily the result ofreleasing the remaining Allowance for loan lossrelated to Hurricane Katrina established in2005. Excluding the allowance release forHurricane Katrina, CS' Allowance for loan lossesremained constant as improved credit qualityoffset the increase of $14.1&nbsp;billion in loanreceivables subject to the Allowance. The RFSbuild was primarily the result of loans acquiredin The Bank of New York transaction.To provide for the risk of loss inherent in theFirm's process of extending credit, management alsocomputes an asset-specific component and aformula-based component for wholesalelending-related commitments. These components arecomputed using a methodology similar to that usedfor the wholesale loan portfolio, modified forexpected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.This allowance, which is reported in Otherliabilities, was $524&nbsp;million and $400&nbsp;million atDecember&nbsp;31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Theincrease reflected increased lending-relatedcommitments and updates to inputs used in thecalculation.Provision for credit lossesFor a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses, see page 29 of this AnnualReport. The managed provision for credit losses includes credit card securitizations. For the yearended December&nbsp;31, 2006, securitized credit card losses were lower compared with the prior-yearperiods, primarily as a result of lower bankruptcy-related charge-offs. At December&nbsp;31, 2006,securitized credit card outstandings were $3.6&nbsp;billion lower compared with the prior year end.&nbsp; &nbsp;MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Market risk is the exposure to an adversechange in the market value of portfolios andfinancial instruments caused by a change in marketprices or rates.Market risk managementMarket risk is identified, measured, monitored, andcontrolled by an independent corporate riskgovernance function. Market risk management seeksto facilitate efficient risk/return decisions,reduce volatility in operating performance and makethe Firm's market risk profile transparent tosenior management, the Board of Directors andregulators. Market risk management is overseen bythe Chief Risk Officer and performs the followingprimary functions:The Firm's business segments also have valuationteams whose functions are to provide independent oversight of the accuracy of thevaluations of positions that expose the Firm tomarket risk. These valuation functions residewithin the market risk management area and have areporting line into Finance.Risk identification and classificationThe market risk management group works inpartnership with the business segments to identifymarket risks throughout the Firm and to refine andmonitor market risk policies and procedures. Allbusiness segments are responsible for comprehensiveidentification and verification of market riskswithin their units. Risk-taking businesses havefunctions that act independently from tradingpersonnel and are responsible for verifying riskexposures that the business takes. In addition toproviding independent oversight for market riskarising from the business segments, Market riskmanagement also is responsible for identifyingexposures which may not be large within individualbusiness segments, but which may be large for theFirm in aggregate. Regular meetings are heldbetween Market risk management and the heads ofrisk-taking businesses to discuss and decide onrisk exposures in the context of the marketenvironment and client flows.Positions that expose the Firm to market risk canbe classified into two categories: trading andnontrading risk. Trading risk includes positionsthat are held by the Firm as part of a businesssegment or unit whose main business strategy is totrade or make markets. Unrealized gains and lossesin these positions are generally reported inPrincipal transactions revenue. Nontrading riskincludes securities and other assets held forlonger-term investment, mortgage servicing rights,and securities and derivatives used to manage theFirm's asset/liability exposures. Unrealized gainsand losses in these positions are generally notreported in Principal transactions revenue.Trading riskFixed income risk (which includes interest raterisk and credit spread risk), foreign exchange,equities and commodities and other trading risksinvolve the potential decline in Net income orfinancial condition due to adverse changes inmarket rates, whether arising from clientactivities or proprietary positions taken by theFirm.Nontrading riskNontrading risk arises from execution of theFirm's core businessstrategies, the delivery of products and servicesto its customers, and the discretionary positionsthe Firm undertakes to risk-manage exposures.These exposures can result from a variety offactors, including differences in the timing amongthe maturity or repricing of assets, liabilitiesand off&#150;balance sheet instruments. Changes in thelevel and shape of market interest rate curves alsomay create interest rate risk, since the repricingcharacteristics of the Firm's assets do notnecessarily match those of its liabilities. TheFirm also is exposed to basis risk, which is thedifference in repricing characteristics of twofloating-rate indices, such as the prime rate and3-month LIBOR. In addition, some of the Firm'sproducts have embedded optionality that impactpricing and balances.The Firm's mortgage banking activities also giverise to complex interest rate risks. The interestrate exposure from the Firm's mortgage bankingactivities is a result of changes in the level ofinterest rates, as well as option and basis risk.Option risk arises primarily from prepaymentoptions embedded in mortgages and changes in theprobability of newly originated mortgagecommitments actually closing. Basis risk resultsfrom different relative movements between mortgagerates and other interest rates.Risk measurementTools used to measure riskBecause no single measure can reflect allaspects of market risk, the Firm uses variousmetrics, both statistical and nonstatistical,including:Nonstatistical risk measuresNonstatistical risk measures other than stresstesting include net open positions, basis pointvalues, option sensitivities, market values,position concentrations and position turnover.These measures provide granular information on theFirm's market risk exposure. They are aggregated byline of business and by risk type, and are used formonitoring limits, one-off approvals and tacticalcontrol.Value-at-riskJPMorgan Chase's primary statistical risk measure,VAR, estimates the potential loss from adversemarket moves in an ordinary market environment andprovides a consistent cross-business measure ofrisk profiles and levels of diversification. VAR isused for comparing risks across businesses,monitoring limits, one-off approvals, and as aninput to economic capital calculations. VARprovides risk transparency in a normal tradingenvironment. Each business day the Firm undertakesa comprehensive VAR calculation that includes bothits trading and its nontrading risks. VAR fornontrading risk measures the amount of potentialchange in the fair values of the exposures relatedto these risks; however, for such risks, VAR is nota measure of reported revenue since nontradingactivities are generally not marked to marketthrough earnings.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historicalsimulation, which measures risk across instrumentsand portfolios in a consistent and comparable way.This approach assumes that historical changes inmarket values are representative of future changes.The simulation is based upon data for the previoustwelvemonths. The Firm calculates VAR using a one-daytime horizon and an expected tail-loss methodology,which approximates a 99% confidence level. Thismeans the Firm would expect to incur losses greaterthan that predicted by VAR estimates only once inevery 100 trading days, or about two to three timesa year.IB Trading and Credit Portfolio VARIB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VARInvestment Bank's average Total Trading andCredit Portfolio VAR was $88&nbsp;million for both 2006and 2005. Commodities and other VAR increased dueto continued expansion of the energy tradingbusiness, while Fixed income VAR decreased due toreduced risk positions, as well as to lower marketvolatility compared with 2005. These changes alsoled to an increase in portfolio diversification, asAverage Trading VAR diversification increased to$70&nbsp;million, or 45% of the sum of the components,during 2006; from $59&nbsp;million, or 41% of the sum ofthe components, during 2005. In general, over thecourse of the year, VAR exposures can varysignificantly as positions change, marketvolatility fluctuates and diversification benefitschange.VAR back-testingTo evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, theFirm conducts daily back-testing of VAR againstdaily IB market risk-related revenue, which isdefined as the change in value of Principaltransactions revenue less Private Equitygains/losses plus any trading-related net interestincome, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees orother revenue. The following histogram illustratesthe daily market risk-related gains and losses forIB trading businesses for the year ended December31, 2006. The chart shows that IB posted marketrisk-related gains on 227 out of 260&nbsp;days in thisperiod, with 29&nbsp;days exceeding $100&nbsp;million. Theinset graph looks at those days on which IBexperienced losses and depicts the amount by whichVAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days.Losses were sustained on 33&nbsp;days, with no lossgreater than $100&nbsp;million, and with no lossexceeding the VAR measure.&nbsp; &nbsp;Loss advisoriesLoss advisories are tools used to highlight tosenior management trading losses above certainlevels and are used to initiate discussion ofremedies.Economic value stress testingWhile VAR reflects the risk of loss due to adversechanges in normal markets, stress testing capturesthe Firm's exposure to unlikely but plausibleevents in abnormal markets. The Firm conductseconomic-value stress tests for both its tradingand its nontrading activities at least once a monthusing multiple scenarios that assume credit spreadswiden significantly, equity prices decline andinterest rates rise in the major currencies.Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominantin individual business segments and includescenarios that focus on the potential for adversemoves in complex portfolios. Periodically,scenarios are reviewed and updated to reflectchanges in the Firm's risk profile and economicevents. Along with VAR, stress testing is importantin measuring and controlling risk. Stress testingenhances the understanding of the Firm's riskprofile and loss potential, and stress losses aremonitored against limits. Stress testing is alsoutilized in one-off approvals and cross-businessrisk measurement, as well as an input to economiccapital allocation. Stress-test results, trends andexplanations are provided each month to the Firm'ssenior management and to the lines of business tohelp them better measure and manage risks and tounderstand event risk-sensitive positions.Earnings-at-risk stress testingThe VAR and stress-test measures described aboveillustrate the total economic sensitivity of theFirm's balance sheet to changes in marketvariables. The effect of interest rate exposure onreported Net income also is critical. Interest raterisk exposure in the Firm's core nontradingbusiness activities (i.e., asset/liabilitymanagement positions) results from on&#150; andoff&#150;balance sheet positions. The Firm conductssimulations of changes in NII from its nontradingactivities under a variety of interest ratescenarios. Earnings-at-risk tests measure thepotential change in the Firm's Net interest incomeover the next 12&nbsp;months and highlight exposures tovarious rate-sensitive factors, such as the ratesthemselves (e.g., the prime lending rate), pricingstrategies on deposits, optionality and changes inproduct mix. The tests include forecasted balancesheet changes, such as asset sales andsecuritizations, as well as prepayment andreinvestment behavior.Earnings-at-risk also can result from changes inthe slope of the yield curve, because the Firm hasthe ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow atvariable or short-term fixed rates. Based uponthese scenarios, the Firm's earnings would beaffected negatively by a sudden and unanticipatedincrease in short-term rates without acorresponding increase in long-term rates.Conversely, higher long-term rates generally arebeneficial to earnings, particularly when theincrease is not accompanied by rising short-termrates.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management'sdiscussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Immediate changes in interest rates present alimited view of risk, and so a number ofalternative scenarios also are reviewed. Thesescenarios include the implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rateshocks on selected key rates. These scenarios areintended to provide a comprehensive view ofJPMorgan Chase's earnings-at-risk over a wide rangeof outcomes.JPMorgan Chase's 12-month pretax earningssensitivity profile as of December&nbsp;31, 2006and 2005, were as follows:The primary change in earnings-at-risk fromDecember&nbsp;31, 2005, reflects a higher level of AFSsecurities and other repositioning. The Firm isexposed to both rising and falling rates. TheFirm's risk to rising rates is largely the resultof increased funding costs. In contrast, theexposure to falling rates is the result of higheranticipated levels of loan and securitiesprepayments.Risk identification for large exposures (&#147;RIFLE&#148;)Individuals who manage risk positions, particularlythose that are complex, are responsible foridentifying potential losses that could arise fromspecific, unusual events, such as a potential taxchange, and estimating the probabilities of lossesarising from such events. This information isentered into the Firm's RIFLE database. Tradingmanagement has access to RIFLE, thereby permittingthe Firm to monitor further earnings vulnerabilitynot adequately covered by standard risk measures.Risk monitoring and controlLimitsMarket risk is controlled primarily through aseries of limits. Limits reflect the Firm's riskappetite in the context of the market environmentand business strategy. In setting limits, the Firmtakes into consideration factors such as marketvolatility, product liquidity, business trends andmanagement experience.Market risk management regularly reviews andupdates risk limits. Senior management, includingthe Firm's Chief Executive Officer and Chief RiskOfficer, is responsible for reviewing and approvingrisk limits at least once a year. Market riskmanagement further controls the Firm's exposure byspecifically designating approved financialinstruments and tenors, known as instrumentauthorities, for each business segment.The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits include VAR and stress.Similarly, line-of-business limits include VAR andstress limits and may be supplemented by lossadvisories, nonstatistical measurements andinstrument authorities. Businesses are responsiblefor adhering to established limits, against whichexposures are monitored and reported. Limitbreaches are reported in a timely manner to seniormanagement, and the affected business segment isrequired either to reduce trading positions orconsult with senior management on the appropriateaction.Qualitative reviewThe market risk management group also performsperiodic reviews as necessary of both businessesand products with exposure to market risk in orderto assess the ability of the businesses to controltheir market risk. Strategies, market conditions,product details and risk controls are reviewed, andspecific recommendations for improvements are madeto management.Model reviewSome of the Firm's financial instruments cannot bevalued based upon quoted market prices but areinstead valued using pricing models. Such modelsare used for management of risk positions, such asreporting against limits, as well as for valuation.The Model Risk Group, independent of the businessesand market risk management, reviews the models theFirm uses and assesses model appropriateness andconsistency. The model reviews consider a number offactors about the model's suitability for valuationand risk management of a particular product,including whether it accurately reflects thecharacteristics of the transaction and itssignificant risks, the suitability and convergenceproperties of numerical algorithms, reliability ofdata sources, consistency of the treatment withmodels for similar products, and sensitivity toinput parameters and assumptions that cannot bepriced from the market.Reviews are conducted of new or changed models, aswell as previously accepted models, to assesswhether there have been any changes in the productor market that may impact the model's validity andwhether there are theoretical or competitivedevelopments that may require reassessment of themodel's adequacy. For a summary of valuationsbased upon models, see Critical AccountingEstimates used by the Firm on pages 83&#150;85 of thisAnnual Report.Risk reportingNonstatistical exposures, value-at-risk, lossadvisories and limit excesses are reported dailyfor each trading and nontrading business. Marketrisk exposure trends, value-at-risk trends, profitand loss changes, and portfolio concentrations arereported weekly. Stress-test results are reportedmonthly to business and senior management.&nbsp; &nbsp;PRIVATE EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Risk managementThe Firm makes direct principal investments inprivate equity. The illiquid nature and long-termholding period associated with these investmentsdifferentiates private equity risk from the risk ofpositionsheld in the trading portfolios. The Firm's approachto managing private equity risk is consistent withthe Firm's general risk governance structure.Controls are in place establishing target levelsfor total and annual investment in order to controlthe overall size of the portfolio. Industry andgeographic concentration limits are in place andintended to ensure diversification of theportfolio; and periodic reviewsare performed on the portfolio to substantiatethe valuations of the investments. The valuationfunction within Market risk management that reportsinto Finance is responsible for reviewing theaccuracy of the carrying values of private equityinvestments held by Private Equity. At December&nbsp;31,2006, the carrying value of the private equitybusinesses was $6.1&nbsp;billion, of which $587&nbsp;millionrepresented positions traded in the public market.OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting frominadequate or failed processes or systems, humanfactors or external events.OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm'sbusinesses and support activities. Operational riskcan manifest itself in various ways, includingerrors, fraudulent acts, business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees or vendors thatdo not perform in accordance with outsourcingarrangements. These events could result infinancial losses and other damage to the Firm,including reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk, the Firmmaintains a system of comprehensive policies and acontrol framework designed to provide a sound andwell-controlled operational environment. The goalis to keep operational risk at appropriate levels,in light of the Firm's financial strength, thecharacteristics of its businesses, the markets inwhich it operates, and the competitive andregulatory environment to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firmincurs operational losses.The Firm's approach to operational risk managementis intended to mitigate such losses bysupplementing traditional control-based approachesto operational risk with risk measures, tools anddisciplines that are risk-specific, consistentlyapplied and utilized firmwide. Key themes aretransparency of information, escalation of keyissues and accountability for issue resolution.The Firm's operational risk framework is supportedby Phoenix, an internally designed operationalrisk software tool. Phoenix integrates theindividual components of the operational riskmanagement framework into a unified, web-basedtool. Phoenix enhances the capture, reporting andanalysis of operational risk data by enabling riskidentification, measurement, monitoring, reportingand analysis to be done in an integrated manner,thereby enabling efficiencies in the Firm'smonitoring and management of its operational risk.For purposes of identification, monitoring,reporting and analysis, the Firm categorizesoperational risk events as follows:Risk identification and measurementRisk identification is the recognition of theoperational risk events that managementbelieves may give rise to operational losses.All businesses utilize the Firm's newly redesignedfirmwide self-assessment process and supportingarchitecture as a dynamic risk management tool. Thegoal of the self-assessment process is for eachbusiness to identify the key operational risksspecific to its environment and assess the degreeto which it maintains appropriate controls. Actionplans are developed for control issues identified,and businesses are held accountable for trackingand resolving these issues on a timely basis.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operationalrisk-event data, permitting analysis of errors andlosses as well as trends. Such analysis, performedboth at a line-of-business level and by risk-eventtype, enables identification of the causesassociated with risk events faced by thebusinesses. Where available, the internal data canbe supplemented with external data for comparativeanalysis with industry patterns. The data reportedenables the Firm to back-test againstself-assessment results. The Firm is a foundingmember of the Operational Risk Data Exchange, anot-for-profit industry association formed for thepurpose of collecting operational loss data andsharing data in an anonymous form and benchmarkingresults back to members. Such informationsupplements the Firm's ongoing operational riskanalysis.Risk reporting and analysisOperational risk management reports provide timelyand accurate information, including informationabout actual operational loss levels andself-assessment results, to the lines of businessand senior management. The purpose of these reportsis to enable management to maintain operationalrisk at appropriate levels within each line ofbusiness, to escalate issues and to provideconsistent data aggregation across the Firm'sbusinesses and support areas.Audit alignmentInternal Audit utilizes a risk-based program ofaudit coverage to provide an independent assessmentof the design and effectiveness of key controlsover the Firm's operations, regulatory complianceand reporting. Audit partners with businessmanagement and members of the control community inproviding guidance on the operational riskframework and reviewing the effectiveness and accuracy of thebusiness self-assessment process as part of its business unit audits.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.REPUTATION AND FIDUCIARY RISK MANAGEMENT&nbsp;A firm's success depends not only on itsprudent management of the liquidity, credit, marketand operational risks that are part of itsbusiness risks, but equally on the maintenanceamong many constituents &#150; clients, investors,regulators, as well as the general public &#150; of areputation for business practices of the highestquality. Attention to reputation always has been akey aspect of the Firm's practices, and maintenanceof reputation is the responsibility of everyone atthe Firm. JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individualresponsibility in many ways, including through theFirm's Code of Conduct, training, maintainingadherence to policies and procedures, and oversightfunctions that approve transactions. Theseoversight functions include a Conflicts Office,which examines wholesale transactions with thepotential to create conflicts of interest for theFirm, and a Policy Review Office that reviewscertain transactions with clients, especiallycomplex derivatives and structured financetransactions that have the potential to affectadversely the Firm's reputation.Policy Review OfficeThe Policy Review Office is the most seniorapproval level for client transactions involvingreputation risk issues. The mandate of the PolicyReview Office is to opine on specific transactionsbrought by the Regional Reputation Risk ReviewCommittees and consider changes in policies orpractices relating to reputation risk. The head ofthe Policy Review Office consults with the Firm'smost senior executives on specific topics andprovides regular updates. The Policy Review Officereinforces the Firm's procedures for examiningtransactions in terms of appropriateness, ethicalissues and reputation risk. It focuses on thepurpose and effect of its transactions from theclient's point of view, with the goal that thesetransactions are not used to mislead investors orothers.Primary responsibility for adherence to thepolicies and procedures designed to addressreputation risk lies with the business unitsconducting the transactions in question. The Firm'stransaction approval process requires review from,among others, internal legal/compliance, conflicts,tax and accounting groups. Transactions involvingan SPE established by the Firm receive particularscrutiny intended to ensure that every such entityis properly approved, documented, monitored andcontrolled.Business units also are required to submit toregional Reputation Risk Review Committees proposedtransactions that may give rise to heightenedreputation risk. The committees may approve, rejector require further clarification on or changes tothe transactions. The members of these committeesare senior representatives of the business andsupport units in the region. The committees mayescalate transaction review to the Policy ReviewOffice.Fiduciary risk managementThe risk management committees within each line ofbusiness include in their mandate the oversight ofthe legal, reputational and, where appropriate,fiduciary risks in their businesses that mayproduce significant losses or reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk Management function works withthe relevant line-of-business risk committees withthe goal of ensuring that businesses providinginvestment or risk management products or servicesthat give rise to fiduciary duties to clientsperform at the appropriate standard relative totheir fiduciary relationship with a client. Ofparticular focus are the policies and practicesthat address a business' responsibilities to aclient, including client suitability determination,disclosure obligations and communications, andperformance expectations with respect to riskmanagement products or services being provided bythe Firm, that give rise to such fiduciary duties.In this way, the relevant line-of-business riskcommittees, together with the Fiduciary RiskManagement function, provide oversight of theFirm's efforts to monitor, measure and control therisks that may arise in the delivery ofthe products or services to clients that give riseto such duties, as well as those stemming from anyof the Firm's fiduciary responsibilities toemployees under the Firm's various employee benefitplans.&nbsp; &nbsp;CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES USED BY THE FIRM&nbsp;JPMorgan Chase's accounting policies and use ofestimates are integral to understanding itsreported results. The Firm's most complexaccounting estimates require management's judgmentto ascertain the valuation of assets andliabilities. The Firm has established detailedpolicies and control procedures intended to ensurethat valuation methods, including any judgmentsmade as part of such methods, are well-controlled,independently reviewed and applied consistentlyfrom period to period. In addition, the policiesand procedures are intended to ensure that theprocess for changing methodologies occurs in anappropriate manner. The Firm believes its estimatesfor determining the valuation of its assets andliabilities are appropriate. The following is abrief description of the Firm's critical accountingestimates involving significant valuationjudgments.Allowance for credit lossesJPMorgan Chase's allowance for credit losses coversthe wholesale and consumer loan portfolios as wellas the Firm's portfolio of wholesalelending-related commitments. The Allowance forcredit losses is intended to adjust the value ofthe Firm's loan assets for probable credit lossesas of the balance sheet date. For furtherdiscussion of the methodologies used inestablishing the Firm's Allowance for creditlosses, see Note 13 on pages 113&#150;114 of thisAnnual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowancefor loan losses and the Allowance forlending-related commitments involves significantjudgment. First and foremost, it involves the earlyidentification of credits that are deteriorating.Second, it involves judgment in establishing theinputs used to estimate the allowances. Third, itinvolves management judgment to evaluate certainmacroeconomic factors, underwriting standards, andother relevant internal and external factorsaffecting the credit quality of the currentportfolio and to refine loss factors to betterreflect these conditions.The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine thecredit quality of its wholesale loans. Wholesaleloans are reviewed for information affecting theobligor's ability to fulfill its obligations. Inassessing the risk rating of a particular loan,among the factors considered are the obligor's debtcapacity and financial flexibility, the level ofthe obligor's earnings, the amount and sources forrepayment, the level and nature of contingencies,management strength, and the industry and geographyin which the obligor operates. These factors arebased upon an evaluation of historical and currentinformation, and involve subjective assessment andinterpretation. Emphasizing one factor over anotheror considering additional factors could impact therisk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.The Firm applies its judgment to establish lossfactors used in calculating the allowances.Wherever possible, the Firm uses independent,verifiable data or the Firm's own historical lossexperience in its models for estimating theallowances. Many factors can affect estimates ofloss, including volatility of loss given default,probability of default and rating migrations.Consideration is given as to whether the lossestimates should be calculated as an average overthe entire credit cycle or at a particular point inthe credit cycle, as well as to which external datashould be used and when they should be used.Choosing data that are not reflective of the Firm'sspecific loan portfolio characteristics could alsoaffect loss estimates. The application of differentinputs would change the amount of the allowance forcredit losses determined appropriate by the Firm.Management also applies its judgment to adjust theloss factors derived, taking into considerationmodel imprecision, external factors and economicevents that have occurred but are not yet reflectedin the loss factors. The resultant adjustments tothe statistical calculation on the performingportfolio are determined by creating estimatedranges using historical experience of both lossgiven default and probability of default. Factorsrelated to concentrated and deterioratingindustries also are incorporated where relevant.The estimated ranges and the determination of theappropriate point within the range are based uponmanagement's view of uncertainties that relate tocurrent macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting standards and otherrelevant internal and external factors affectingthe credit quality of the current portfolio. Theadjustment to the statistical calculation for thewholesale loan portfolio for the period endedDecember&nbsp;31, 2006, was $903&nbsp;million based uponmanagement's assessment of current economicconditions.Consumer loansFor scored loans in the consumer lines of business,loss is determined primarily by applyingstatistical loss factors and other risk indicatorsto pools of loans by asset type. These lossestimates are sensitive to changes in delinquencystatus, credit bureau scores, the realizable valueof collateral and other risk factors.Adjustments to the statistical calculation areaccomplished in part by analyzing the historicalloss experience for each major product segment.Management analyzes the range of credit lossexperienced for each major portfolio segment,taking into account economic cycles, portfolioseasoning and underwriting criteria, and thenformulates a range that incorporates relevant riskfactors that impact overall credit performance. Therecorded adjustment to the statistical calculationfor the period ended December&nbsp;31, 2006, was $1.2billion based upon management's assessment ofcurrent economic conditions.Fair value of financial instruments, MSRs and commodities inventoryA portion of JPMorgan Chase's assets andliabilities are carried at fair value, includingtrading assets and liabilities, AFS securities,private equity investments and mortgage servicingrights (&#147;MSRs&#148;). Held-for-sale loans and physicalcommodities are carried at the lower of fair valueor cost. At December&nbsp;31, 2006, approximately $526.8billion of the Firm's assets were recorded at fairvalue.The fair value of a financial instrument is definedas the amount at which the instrument could beexchanged in a current transaction between willingparties, other than in a forced or liquidationsale. The majority of the Firm's assets reported atfair value are based upon quoted market prices orupon internally developed models that utilizeindependently sourced market parameters, includinginterest rate yield curves, option volatilities andcurrency rates.The degree of management judgment involved indetermining the fair value of a financialinstrument is dependent upon the availability ofquoted market prices or observable marketparameters. For financial instruments that aretraded actively and have quoted market prices orparameters readily available, there is little-to-nosubjectivity in determining fair value. Whenobservable market prices and parameters do notexist, management judgment is necessary to estimatefair value. The valuation process takes into consideration&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.factors such as liquidity and concentrationconcerns and, for the derivatives portfolio,counterparty credit risk (For a discussion of CVA, see Derivativecontractson pages 69&#150;72 of this Annual Report). For example,there is often limited market data to rely on whenestimating the fair value of a large or agedposition. Similarly, judgment must be applied inestimating prices for less readily observableexternal parameters. Finally, other factors such asmodel assumptions, market dislocations andunexpected correlations can affect estimates offair value. Imprecision in estimating these factorscan impact the amount of revenue or loss recordedfor a particular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfoliosThe majority of the Firm's securities held fortrading and investment purposes (&#147;long&#148; positions)and securities that the Firm has sold to otherparties but does not own (&#147;short&#148; positions) arevalued based upon quoted market prices. However,certain securities are traded less actively and,therefore, are not always able to be valued basedupon quoted market prices. The determination oftheir fair value requires management judgment, asthis determination may require benchmarking tosimilar instruments or analyzing default andrecovery rates. Examples include certaincollateralized mortgage and debt obligations andhigh-yield debt securities.As few derivative contracts are listed on anexchange, the majority of the Firm's derivativepositions are valued using internally developedmodels that use as their basis readily observablemarket parameters &#150; that is, parameters that areactively quoted and can be validated to externalsources, including industry-pricing services.Certain derivatives, however, are valued based uponmodels with significant unobservable marketparameters &#150; that is, parameters that must beestimated and are, therefore, subject to managementjudgment to substantiate the model valuation. Theseinstruments are normally either traded lessactively or trade activity is one way. Examplesinclude long-dated interest rate or currency swaps,where swap rates may be unobservable for longermaturities, and certain credit products, wherecorrelation and recovery rates are unobservable.Due to the lack of observable market data, the Firmdefers the initial trading profit for thesefinancial instruments. The deferred profit isrecognized in Principal transactions revenue on asystematic basis (typically straight-lineamortization over the life of the instruments) whenobservable market data becomes available.Management's judgment includes recording fair valueadjustments (i.e., reductions) to model valuationsto account for parameter uncertainty when valuingcomplex or less actively traded derivativetransactions. The following table summarizes theFirm's trading and available-for-sale portfolios byvaluation methodology at December&nbsp;31, 2006:To ensure that the valuations are appropriate,the Firm has various controls in place. Theseinclude: an independent review and approval ofvaluation models; detailed review and explanationfor profit and loss analyzed daily and over time;decomposing the model valuations for certainstructured derivative instruments into theircomponents and benchmarking valuations, wherepossible, to similar products; and validatingvaluation estimates through actual cash settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricing forcertain derivative products becomes moretransparent, the Firm continues to refine itsvaluation methodologies.For further discussion of market risk management,including the model review process, see Market riskmanagement on pages 77&#150;80 of this Annual Report.For further details regarding the Firm's valuationmethodologies, see Note 31 on pages 135&#150;137 ofthis Annual Report.Loans held-for-saleThe fair value of loans in the held-for-saleportfolio generally is based upon observable marketprices of similar instruments, including bonds,credit derivatives and loans with similarcharacteristics. If market prices are notavailable, fair value is based upon the estimatedcash flows adjusted for credit risk that isdiscounted using an interest rate appropriate forthe maturity of the applicable loans.Commodities inventoryThe majority of commodities inventory includesbullion and base metals where fair value isdetermined by reference to prices in highly activeand liquid markets. The fair value of othercommodities inventory is determined primarily usingprices and data derived from the markets on whichthe underlying commodities are traded. Marketprices used may be adjusted for liquidity.Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily bythe Private Equity business within Corporaterequires significant management judgment due to theabsence of quoted market prices, inherent lack ofliquidity and the long-term nature of such assets.Private equity investments are valued initiallybased upon cost. The carrying values of privateequity investments are adjusted from cost toreflect both positive and negative changesevidenced by financing events with third-partycapital providers. In addition, these investmentsare subject to ongoing impairment reviews byPrivate Equity's senior investment professionals. Avariety of factors are reviewed and monitored toassess impairment including, but not limited to,operating performance and future expectations ofthe particular portfolio investment, industryvaluations of comparable public companies, changesin market outlook and the third-party financingenvironment over time.&nbsp; &nbsp;For adiscussion of the accounting for Privateequity investments, seeNote 4 on pages 98&#150;99 of this Annual Report.MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests fromsecuritization activities do not trade in anactive, open market with readily observable prices.For example, sales of MSRs do occur, but theprecise terms and conditions typically are notreadily available. Accordingly, the Firm estimatesthe fair value of MSRs and certain other retainedinterests in securitizations using discountedfuture cash flow (DCF)&nbsp;models.For MSRs, the Firm uses an option adjusted spread(&#147;OAS&#148;) valuation model in conjunction with theFirm's proprietary prepayment model to project MSRcash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios,which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates toestimate an expected fair value of the MSRs. TheOAS model considers portfolio characteristics,contractually specified servicing fees, prepaymentassumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, otherancillary revenues, costs to service and othereconomic factors.For certain other retained interests insecuritizations (such as interest-only strips), asingle interest rate path DCF model is used andgenerally includes assumptions based uponprojected finance charges related to thesecuritized assets, estimated net credit losses,prepayment assumptions, and contractual interestpaid to third-party investors. Changes in theassumptions used may have a significant impact onthe Firm's valuation of retained interests.For both MSRs and certain other retained interestsin securitizations, the Firm compares its fairvalue estimates and assumptions to observablemarket data where available and to recent marketactivity and actual portfolio experience.For further discussion of the most significantassumptions used to value retained interests insecuritizations and MSRs, as well as the applicablestress tests for those assumptions, see Notes 14and 16 on pages 114&#150;118 and 121&#150;122,respectively, of this Annual Report.Goodwill impairmentUnder SFAS 142, goodwill must be allocated toreporting units and tested for impairment. The Firmtests goodwill for impairment at least annually,and more frequently if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business climate,indicate that there may be justification forconducting an interim test. Impairment testing isperformed at the reporting-unit level (which isgenerally one level below the six major businesssegments identified in Note 33 on pages 139&#150;141 ofthis Annual Report, plus Private Equity which isincluded in Corporate). The first part of the testis a comparison, at the reporting unit level, ofthe fair value of each reporting unit to itscarrying amount, including goodwill. If the fairvalue is less than the carrying value, then thesecond part of the test is needed to measure theamount of potential goodwill impairment. Theimplied fair value of the reporting unit goodwillis calculated and compared with the carrying amountof goodwill recorded in the Firm's financialrecords. If the carrying value of reporting unitgoodwill exceeds the implied fair value of thatgoodwill, then the Firm would recognize animpairment loss in the amount of the difference,which would be recorded as a charge against Netincome.The fair values of the reporting units aredetermined using discounted cash flow models basedupon each reporting unit's internal forecasts. Inaddition, analysis using market-based trading andtransaction multiples, where available, are used toassess the reasonableness of the valuations derivedfrom the discounted cash flow models.ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING DEVELOPMENTS&nbsp;Accounting for share-based paymentsEffective January&nbsp;1, 2006, the Firm adopted SFAS123R and all related interpretations using themodified prospective transition method. SFAS 123Rrequires all share-based payments to employees,including employee stock options and stock-settledstock appreciation right (&#147;SARs&#148;), to be measuredat their grant date fair values. For additionalinformation related to SFAS 123R, see Note 8 onpages 105&#150;107 of this Annual Report.Accounting for certain hybrid financialinstruments &#150; an amendment of FASB StatementsNo.&nbsp;133 and 140In February&nbsp;2006, the FASB issued SFAS 155, whichapplies to certain &#147;hybrid financial instruments&#148;which are defined as financial instruments thatcontain embedded derivatives. The new standardestablishes a requirement to evaluate beneficialinterests in securitized financial assets todetermine if the interests represent freestandingderivatives or are hybrid financial instrumentscontaining embedded derivatives requiringbifurcation. Italso permits an irrevocable election for fair valueremeasurement of any hybrid financial instrumentcontaining an embedded derivative that otherwisewould require bifurcation under SFAS 133. The Firmadopted this standard effective January&nbsp;1, 2006.For additional information related to SFAS 155, seeNote 1 on page 95 of this Annual Report.Accounting for servicing of financial assetsIn March&nbsp;2006, the FASB issued SFAS 156, which iseffective as of the beginning of the first fiscalyear beginning after September&nbsp;15, 2006, with earlyadoption permitted. JPMorgan Chase elected to adoptthe standard effective January&nbsp;1, 2006. Thestandard permits an entity a one-time irrevocableelection to adopt fair value accounting for a classof servicing assets. The Firm has defined MSRs asone class of servicing assets for this election.For additional information related to the Firm'sadoption of SFAS 156 with respect to MSRs, see Note16 on pages 121&#150;122 of this Annual Report.&nbsp; &nbsp;Management's discussion and analysisJPMorgan Chase & Co.Postretirement benefit plansIn September&nbsp;2006, the FASB issued SFAS 158, whichrequires recognition in the Consolidated balancesheets of the overfunded or underfunded status ofdefined benefit postretirement plans, measured asthe difference between the fair value of planassets and the amount of the benefit obligation.The Firm adopted SFAS 158 on a prospective basis onDecember&nbsp;31, 2006. SFAS 158 has no impact either onthe measurement of the Firm's plan assets orbenefit obligations, or on how the Firm determinesits net periodic benefit costs. For additionalinformation related to SFAS 158, see Note 7 onpages 100&#150;105 of this Annual Report.Accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and changes in timing of cash flows related to income taxes generated by a leveraged leaseIn July&#160;2006, the FASB issued two pronouncements: FIN&#160;48, which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized under SFAS&#160;109, and the related FSP&#160;FAS 13-2. FIN&#160;48 addresses the recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken, and also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, and disclosure. FSP&#160;FAS 13-2 requires the recalculation of returns on leveraged leases if there is a change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated by a leveraged lease. The Firm will apply FIN&#160;48 to all of its income tax positions at the required effective date of January&#160;1, 2007 under the transition provisions of the Interpretation. JPMorgan Chase currently estimates that the cumulative effect adjustment to implement FIN&#160;48 will increase the January&#160;1, 2007 balance of Retained earnings by approximately $400&#160;million. However, the standard continues to be interpreted and the FASB is expected to issue additional guidance on FIN&#160;48, which could affect this estimate. Accordingly, JPMorgan Chase will continue its assessment of the impact of FIN&#160;48 on its financial condition and results of operations. The guidance in FSP FAS&#160;13-2 will also be effective for the Firm on January&#160;1, 2007. Implementation of FSP&#160;FAS&#160;13-2 is expected to result in immaterial adjustments.Fair value measurementsIn September&#160;2006, the FASB issued SFAS&#160;157, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after November&#160;15, 2007, with early adoption permitted. SFAS&#160;157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The new standard provides a consistent definition of fair value which focuses on exit price and prioritizes, within a measurement of fair value, the use of market-based inputs over entity-specific inputs. The standard also establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based on the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. SFAS&#160;157 nullifies the guidance in EITF 02-3 which required the deferral of profit at inception of a transaction involving a derivative financial instrument in the absence of observable data supporting the valuation technique. The standard also eliminates large position discounts for financial instruments quoted in active markets and requires consideration of nonperformance risk when valuing liabilities. Currently, the fair value of the Firm's derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect JPMorgan Chase's credit quality. The Firm intends to early adopt SFAS&#160;157 effective January&#160;1, 2007, and expects to record a cumulative effect after-tax increase to retained earnings of approximately $250&#160;million related to the release of profit previously deferred in accordance with EITF&#160;02-3. In order to determine the amount of this transition adjustment and to confirm that the Firm's valuation policies are consistent with exit price as prescribed by SFAS&#160;157, the Firm reviewed its derivative valuations in consideration of all available evidence including recent transactions in the marketplace, indicative pricing services and the results of back-testing similar transaction types. In addition, the Firm expects to record adjustments to earnings related to the incorporation of the Firm's nonperformance risk in the valuation of liabilities recorded at fair value and for private equity investments where there is significant market evidence to support an increase in value but there has been no third-party market transaction related to the capital structure of the investment. The application of SFAS&#160;157 involves judgement and interpretation. The Firm continues to monitor and evaluate the developing interpretations.Fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS&#160;159, which is effective for the fiscal years beginning after November&#160;15, 2007, with early adoption permitted. SFAS&#160;159 provides an option for companies to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan commitments. Under SFAS&#160;159, fair value would be used for both the initial and subsequent measurement of the designated assets, liabilities and commitments, with the changes in value recognized in earnings. The Firm is reviewing the recently released standard and assessing what elections it may make as part of an early adoption effective January&#160;1, 2007.&nbsp;
