 In determining the pro forma disclosures above, the fair value of optionsgranted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes model was developed to estimate the fairvalue of traded options, which have different characteristics than employeestock options, and changes to the subjective assumptions used in the model canresult in materially different fair value estimates. The weighted averagegrant-date fair values of the options granted during 2000, 1999 and 1998 werebased on the following assumptions:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Compensation expense under the fair-value based method is recognized overthe vesting period of the related stock options. Accordingly, the pro formaresults of applying SFAS 123 in 2000, 1999 and 1998 may not be indicative offuture amounts.Key Employee Stock Plan The Key Employee Stock Plan (KEYSOP), as amended and restated, provides fordifferent types of awards including stock options, restricted stock and per-formance shares (or restricted stock units). Under the KEYSOP, ten-yearoptions to purchase approximately 67.0 million shares of common stock havebeen granted through December 31, 2000 to certain employees at the closingmarket price on the respective grant dates. Options granted under the KEYSOPgenerally vest in three or four equal annual installments. At December 31,2000, approximately 53.1 million options were outstanding under this plan.Additionally, approximately 652,000 shares of restricted stock were grantedduring 2000. These shares of restricted stock generally vest in three equalannual installments beginning one year from the grant date.Take Ownership! On September 23, 1998, the Board approved Take Ownership! The Bank of Amer-ica Global Associate Stock Option Program (Take Ownership!) which covers allemployees below a specified executive grade level. Under the plan, eligibleemployees receive an award of a predetermined number of stock options enti-tling them to purchase shares of the Corporation's common stock at the fairmarket value on the grant date. Options granted on the first business day of1999 and 2000 vest 25% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, 25% onthe second anniversary of the date of grant and 50% on the third anniversaryof the date of grant. These options have a term of five years after the grantdate. On January 3, 2000, options to purchase approximately 24.5 millionshares of common stock at $48.4375 per share were granted under the plan. AtDecember 31, 2000, approximately 53.4 million options were outstanding underthis plan.Other Plans Under the NationsBank 1996 Associates Stock Option Award Plan (ASOP), asamended, the Corporation granted in 1996 and 1997 to certain full- and part-time associates options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 47 millionshares of the Corporation's common stock. All options granted under the ASOPare vested and expire June 29, 2001. At December 31, 2000, approximately 9.2million options were outstanding under this plan. No further awards may begranted under this plan. Under the BankAmerica 1992 Management Stock Plan, ten-year options to pur-chase approximately 14.3 million shares of the Corporation's common stock weregranted to certain key employees in 1997 and 1998. Options awarded generallyvest in three equal annual installments beginning one year from the grantdate. At December 31, 2000, approximately 26.4 million options were outstand-ing under this plan. Additionally, 2.9 million shares of restricted stock weregranted to certain key employees in 1997 and 1998. These shares generally vestin four equal annual installments beginning the second year from the date ofgrant. No further awards may be granted under this plan. 97  Under the BankAmerica Performance Equity Program, ten-year options to pur-chase approximately 12.3 million shares of the Corporation's common stock weregranted to certain key employees in 1997 and 1998 in the form of market priceoptions and premium price options. All options issued under this plan to per-sons who were employees as of the Merger date vested. At December 31, 2000,approximately 11.8 million options were outstanding under this plan. No fur-ther awards may be granted under this plan. On October 1, 1996, BankAmerica adopted the BankAmerica Global Stock OptionProgram (BankAmerica Take Ownership!) which covered substantially all associ-ates. Options awarded under this plan vest in three equal installments begin-ning one year from the grant date and have a term of five years after thegrant date. Approximately 37.5 million shares were granted in 1997 and 1998.At December 31, 2000, approximately 20.7 million options were outstandingunder this plan. No further awards may be granted under this plan. Additional stock options assumed in connection with various acquisitionsremain outstanding and are included in the tables below. No further awards maybe granted under these plans. The following tables present the status of all plans at December 31, 2000,1999 and 1998, and changes during the years then ended:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 98  The following table summarizes information about stock options outstandingat December 31, 2000:- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------Note Seventeen - Income Taxes The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2000,1999 and 1998 were as follows:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized gains andlosses on available-for-sale and marketable equity securities that areincluded in shareholders' equity and certain tax benefits associated with theCorporation's employee stock plans. As a result of these tax effects, share-holders' equity decreased by $674 million in 2000 and increased by $1,538 mil-lion and $418 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Corporation's cur-rent income tax expense approximates the amounts payable for those years.Deferred income tax expense represents the change in the deferred tax asset orliability and is discussed further below. A reconciliation of the expected federal income tax expense using the fed-eral statutory tax rate of 35 percent to the actual income tax expense for theyears ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 follows:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 99  Significant components of the Corporation's deferred tax (liabilities)assets at December 31, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: The Corporation's deferred tax assets at December 31, 2000 and 1999 includeda valuation allowance of $122 million and $138 million, respectively, primar-ily representing net operating loss carryforwards for which it is more likelythan not that realization will not occur. The net change in the valuationallowance for deferred tax assets resulted from a portion of net operatingloss carryforwards of foreign subsidiaries being used to offset taxable incomewhere realization was not expected to occur. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, federal income taxes had not been provided on$1,075 million and $814 million, respectively, of undistributed earnings offoreign subsidiaries, earned prior to 1987 and after 1997, that have beenreinvested for an indefinite period of time. If the earnings were distributed,an additional $171 million and $128 million of tax expense, net of credits forforeign taxes paid on such earnings and for the related foreign withholdingtaxes, would result in 2000 and 1999, respectively.Note Eighteen - Fair Value of Financial Instruments Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, "Disclosures About FairValue of Financial Instruments" (SFAS 107), requires the disclosure of theestimated fair value of financial instruments. The fair value of a financialinstrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a cur-rent transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquida-tion sale. Quoted market prices, if available, are utilized as estimates ofthe fair values of financial instruments. Since no quoted market prices existfor a significant part of the Corporation's financial instruments, the fairvalues of such instruments have been derived based on management's assump-tions, the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows and estimated dis-count rates. The estimation methods for individual classifications of finan-cial instruments are described more fully below. Different assumptions couldsignificantly affect these estimates. Accordingly, the net realizable valuescould be materially different from the estimates presented below. In addition,the estimates are only indicative of the value of individual financial instru-ments and should not be considered an indication of the fair value of the com-bined Corporation. 100  The provisions of SFAS 107 do not require the disclosure of nonfinancialinstruments, including intangible assets such as goodwill, franchise, creditcard and trust relationships and MSR. In addition, the disclosure of fairvalue amounts does not include lease financing.Short-Term Financial Instruments The carrying value of short-term financial instruments, including cash andcash equivalents, federal funds sold and purchased, resale and repurchaseagreements, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, approximates thefair value of these instruments. These financial instruments generally exposethe Corporation to limited credit risk and have no stated maturities, or havean average maturity of less than 30 days and carry interest rates whichapproximate market.Financial Instruments Traded in the Secondary Market Held-to-maturity securities, available-for-sale securities, trading accountinstruments, long-term debt and trust preferred securities traded actively inthe secondary market have been valued using quoted market prices. The fairvalue of securities and trading account instruments is reported in Notes Fourand Five on pages 74 and 76.Loans Fair values were estimated for groups of similar loans based upon type ofloan, credit quality and maturity. The fair value of loans was determined bydiscounting estimated cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corpo-ration's December 31 origination rates for similar loans. Where quoted marketprices were available, primarily for certain residential mortgage loans, suchmarket prices were utilized as estimates for fair values. Contractual cashflows for residential mortgage loans were adjusted for estimated prepaymentsusing published industry data. Where credit deterioration has occurred, esti-mated cash flows for fixed- and variable-rate loans have been reduced toincorporate estimated losses. The fair values of domestic commercial loans that do not reprice or maturewithin relatively short timeframes were estimated using discounted cash flowmodels. The discount rates were based on current market interest rates forsimilar types of loans, remaining maturities and credit ratings. For domesticcommercial loans that reprice within relatively short timeframes, the carryingvalues were assumed to approximate their fair values. Substantially all of theforeign loans reprice within relatively short timeframes. Accordingly, for themajority of foreign loans, the carrying values were assumed to approximatetheir fair values. For purposes of these fair value estimates, the fair valuesof nonaccrual loans were computed by deducting an estimated market discountfrom their carrying values to reflect the uncertainty of future cash flows.The fair values of commitments to extend credit were not significant at eitherDecember 31, 2000 or 1999.Deposits The fair value for deposits with stated maturities was calculated by dis-counting contractual cash flows using current market rates for instrumentswith similar maturities. The carrying value of foreign time deposits approxi-mates fair value. For deposits with no stated maturities, the carrying amountwas considered to approximate fair value and does not take into account thesignificant value of the cost advantage and stability of the Corporation'slong-term relationships with depositors.Derivative Financial Instruments The fair value of the Corporation's derivative-dealer assets and liabilitiesand ALM contracts is presented in Note Thirteen on page 87. 101  The book and fair values of certain financial instruments at December 31,2000 and 1999 were as follows:- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------(1) Excludes obligations under capital leases. For all other financial instruments, book value approximates fair value.Note Nineteen - Business Segment Information In 2000, the Corporation realigned its business segments to report theresults of the Corporation's operations through four business segments: Con-sumer and Commercial Banking, Asset Management, Global Corporate and Invest-ment Banking and Equity Investments. Consumer and Commercial Banking providesa diversified range of products and services to individuals and small busi-nesses through multiple delivery channels and commercial lending and treasurymanagement services to middle market companies with annual revenue between $10million and $500 million. Asset Management offers customized asset managementand credit, financial advisory, fiduciary, trust and banking services, as wellas both full-service and discount brokerage services. It provides managementof equity, fixed income, cash and alternative investments to individuals, cor-porations and a wide array of institutional clients. Global Corporate andInvestment Banking provides a diversified range of financial products such asinvestment banking, trade finance, treasury management, capital markets, leas-ing and financial advisory services to domestic and international corpora-tions, financial institutions and government entities. Equity Investmentsincludes Principal Investing, which formerly was a component of Global Corpo-rate and Investment Banking. Principal Investing makes both direct and indi-rect equity investments in a wide variety of transactions. Equity Investmentsalso includes the Corporation's strategic technology and alliances investmentportfolio in addition to other parent company investments. 102  The following table includes total revenue and net income for the yearsended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, and total assets at December 31, 2000and 1999 for each business segment. Certain prior period amounts have beenreclassified between segments to conform to the current period presentation.Business Segments- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------(1) Net interest income is presented on a taxable-equivalent basis.(2) There were no material intersegment revenues among the four business seg- ments. 103  Following is a reconciliation of the business segments' revenue and netincome for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 and total assetsat December 31, 2000 and 1999 to the consolidated totals:- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The adjustments presented in the table above represent consolidated income,expense and asset balances not specifically allocated to individual businesssegments. In addition, reconciling items also include the effect of earningsallocations not assigned to specific business segments, as well as the relatedearning asset balances. 104 Note Twenty - Bank of America Corporation (Parent Company Only) The following tables present the Parent Company Only financial information:Condensed Statement of Income- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------Condensed Balance Sheet- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 105 Condensed Statement of Cash Flows On January 1, 1999, NationsCredit Corporation, a nonbank subsidiary, mergedinto Bank of America Corporation. In addition, during 1999, Bank of America,FSB, a nonbank subsidiary, merged into Bank of America, N.A. and EquiCreditCorporation of America, also a nonbank subsidiary, became an indirect subsidi-ary of Bank of America, N.A. Amounts presented above for 1998 have not beenrestated to reflect these transactions. 106 Note Twenty-One - Performance by Geographic Area Since the Corporation's operations are highly integrated, certain asset,liability, income and expense amounts must be allocated to arrive at totalassets and total revenue by geographic area. The Corporation identifies itsgeographic performance based upon the business unit in which the assets arerecorded and where the income is earned and the expenses are incurred. In cer-tain circumstances, units may transact business with customers who are out oftheir immediate geographic area. For example, a U.S. domiciled unit may havemade a loan to a borrower who resides in Latin America. In this instance, theloan and related income would be included in domestic activities. Translationlosses, for those units in hyperinflationary economies, net of hedging,totaled $1 million in 2000, compared to translation gains of $4 million in1999 and translation losses of $12 million in 1998. These amounts, which arereported in other noninterest income, are included in the table below:(1) Total assets includes long-lived assets, primarily all of which are located in the U.S.(2) Total revenues includes net interest income plus noninterest income. There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented.(3) Includes the Corporation's Canadian operations, which had total assets of $3,938, $3,378 and $4,087 and total revenues of $118, $100 and $84 at and for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. 107 Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accounting andfinancial disclosure. PART IIIItem 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 2through 5 of the registrant's definitive 2001 Proxy Statement relating to itsannual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 25, 2001 (the "2001 ProxyStatement") with respect to the name of each nominee, that person's age, posi-tions and offices with the registrant, business experience, directorships inother public companies, service on the registrant's Board and certain familyrelationships, and information set forth under the caption "Section 16(a) Ben-eficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 7 of the 2001 Proxy Statementwith respect to Section 16 matters, is hereby incorporated by reference. Inaddition, information set forth under the caption "Special CompensationArrangements - Employment Agreements with Messrs. Lewis and Hance" and "- Con-sulting Agreement with Mr. McColl" on page 12 of the 2001 Proxy Statement ishereby incorporated by reference. Additional information required by Item 10with respect to executive officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A hereof.Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers, cer-tain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtedness andother transactions set forth in the 2001 Proxy Statement (i) under the caption"Board of Directors' Compensation" on page 8 thereof, (ii) under the caption"Executive Compensation" on pages 9 and 10 thereof, (iii) under the caption"Retirement Plans" on page 11 thereof, (iv) under the caption "Deferred Com-pensation Plan" on pages 11 and 12 thereof, (v) under the caption "SpecialCompensation Arrangements" on page 12 thereof, (vi) under the caption "Compen-sation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 16 thereof, and(vii) under the caption "Certain Transactions" on page 16 thereof, is, to theextent such information is required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K, herebyincorporated by reference.Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-Krelating to persons who beneficially own five percent or more of the outstand-ing shares of Common Stock, ESOP Preferred Stock or 7% Cumulative RedeemablePreferred Stock, Series B, as well as security ownership information relatingto directors, nominees and named executive officers individually and directorsand executive officers as a group, is hereby incorporated by reference to theownership information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Cer-tain Beneficial Owners and Management" on pages 5 through 7 of the 2001 ProxyStatement.Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information with respect to relationships and related transactions betweenthe registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,security holder owning five percent or more of the registrant's voting securi-ties or any member of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forthin the 2001 Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Inter-locks and Insider Participation" on page 16 and under the caption "CertainTransactions" on page 16 thereof, is, to the extent such information isrequired by Item 404 of Regulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference. 108  PART IVItem 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K a. The following documents are filed as part of this report: (2) Schedules: None b. The following reports on Form 8-K were filed by the registrant during the quarter ended December 31, 2000: Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 6, 2000 and filed October 20, 2000, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 6, 2000 and filed December 6, 2000, Items 5, 7 and 9. Current Report on Form 8-K/A dated December 6, 2000 and filed December 7, 2000, Items 5, 7 and 9. c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-6, including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are iden- tified separately by asterisk). With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated by ref-erence, the 2001 Proxy Statement is not to be deemed filed as part of thisAnnual Report on Form 10-K. 109  SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf bythe undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Bank of America CorporationDate: March 19, 2001 */s/ Hugh L. McColl, Jr. By: _________________________________________ Hugh L. McColl, Jr. Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, thisreport has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the regis-trant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 110  111  INDEX TO EXHIBITS E-1  E-2  E-3  E-4  E-5 - --------- * Denotes executive compensation plan or arrangement. E-6  Exhibit 4(l)- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- AMENDED AND RESTATED AGENCY AGREEMENT relating to BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. U.S. $20,000,000,000 Euro Medium-Term Note Program among BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. as Issuers and THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, London Branch as Issuing and Principal Paying Agent and CHASE MANHATTAN BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A. as Paying Agent Dated as of August 1, 2000- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------  INDEX -----Schedule 1 - Form of Temporary Global Note- ----------Schedule 2 - Form of Permanent Global Note- ----------Schedule 3 - Form of Definitive Note, Coupon, Receipt and Talon- ----------Schedule 4 - Terms and Conditions- ----------Schedule 5 - Form of Certificate to be Presented by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg- ----------Schedule 6 - Form of Certificate of Beneficial Owner- ----------Schedule 7 - Provision for Meetings of Noteholders- ----------Schedule 8 - Form of Put Notice- ----------Schedule 9 - Form of Calculation Agency Agreement- ---------- i THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED AGENCY AGREEMENT dated as of August 1, 2000 among: (i) Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association (the "Bank"; the Bank and the Corporation are each an "Issuer" and collectively, "Issuers"); (ii) The Chase Manhattan Bank, London Branch (the "Agent" and the "Issuing and Principal Paying Agent"); and (iii) Chase Manhattan Bank Luxembourg S.A. (the "Paying Agent"). WHEREAS, the Corporation, the Agent and the Paying Agent wish toupdate the arrangements originally agreed among them pursuant to that certainAgency Agreement dated November 8, 1995, as amended and restated to the datehereof, including the amendment and restatement dated July 30, 1999 (the"Original Agency Agreement"); WHEREAS, the Issuers propose to issue up to U.S. $10,000,000,000 withrespect to the Corporation and U.S. $10,000,000,000 with respect to the Bank (orits equivalent in other currencies) in aggregate principal amount of EuroMedium-Term Notes (the "Notes") outstanding at any one time as provided in anAmended and Restated Program Agreement of even date among the Issuers, theArranger and the Dealers named therein (the "Program Agreement") and asdescribed in an Offering Circular of even date (the "Offering Circular"); WHEREAS, Notes will be issued in the denominations specified in therelevant Pricing Supplement issued in connection with each Series and eachTranche of Notes; and WHEREAS, unless otherwise determined by an Issuer and specified in theapplicable Pricing Supplement, beneficial interests in each Tranche of Notesinitially will be represented by a Temporary Global Note, exchangeable, asprovided in such Temporary Global Note, for beneficial interests in a PermanentGlobal Note and, only under limited circumstances, beneficial interests in aGlobal Note may be exchangeable for Definitive Notes, in each case in accordancewith the terms of the Global Notes. NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows: 1. Definitions and Interpretation ------------------------------ (1) Terms and expressions defined in the Program Agreement or theNotes or used in the applicable Pricing Supplement shall have the same meaningsin this Agreement, except where the context requires otherwise. (2) Without prejudice to the foregoing in this Agreement: "outstanding" means, in relation to the Notes, all the Notes issuedother than (a) those which have been redeemed in accordance with the Terms andConditions, (b) those in respect of which the date for redemption in accordancewith the Terms and Conditions has occurred and the redemption moneys (includingall interest accrued on such Notes to the date for such redemption and anyinterest or other amounts payable under the Terms and Conditions after suchdate) have been duly paid to the Agent as provided in this Agreement and remainavailable for payment against presentation and surrender of Notes and/orReceipts and/or Coupons, as the case may be, (c) those which have become voidunder Condition 8, (d) those which have been purchased and canceled as providedin Condition 5 (or as provided in the Global Notes), (e) those mutilated ordefaced Notes which have been surrendered in exchange for replacement Notespursuant to Condition 10, (f) (for purposes only of determining how many Notesare outstanding and without prejudice to their status for any other purpose)those Notes alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed and in respect ofwhich replacement Notes have been issued pursuant to Condition 10, (g) anyTemporary Global Note to the extent that it shall have been exchanged for aPermanent Global Note, in each case pursuant to their respective provisions;provided that for the purposes of (i) ascertaining the right to attend and voteat any meeting of the Noteholders and (ii) the determination of how many Notesare outstanding for the purposes of Schedule 7, those Notes which are beneficially held by, or are heldon behalf of, an Issuer or any of its affiliates shall (unless and until ceasingto be so held) be deemed not to remain outstanding; "Paying Agents" means the Issuing and Principal Paying Agent and thePaying Agent referred to above and such other Paying Agent or Agents as may beappointed from time to time hereunder; and (3) The term "Notes" as used in this Agreement shall include theTemporary Global Note and the Permanent Global Note, Definitive Notes andCoupons. The term "Global Note" as used in this Agreement shall include both theTemporary Global Note and the Permanent Global Note, each of which is a "GlobalNote." The term "Noteholders" as used in this Agreement shall mean the severalpersons who are for the time being the holders of the Notes, which expression,while the Notes are represented by a Global Note, shall mean (other than withrespect to the payment of principal and interest on the Notes, the right towhich shall be vested as against the relevant Issuer solely in the bearer ofsuch Global Note in accordance with and subject to its terms) the persons forthe time being shown in the records of Euroclear (as defined below) orClearstream, Luxembourg (as defined below) (other than Clearstream, Luxembourg,if Clearstream, Luxembourg shall be an accountholder of Euroclear, andEuroclear, if Euroclear shall be an accountholder of Clearstream, Luxembourg) asthe Noteholders of particular principal amounts of Notes (in which regard anycertificate or other document issued by Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg asto the principal amount of Notes standing to the credit of the account of anyperson shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes). (4) For purposes of this Agreement, the Notes of each Series shallform a separate series of Notes and the provisions of this Agreement shall applymutatis mutandis separately and independently to the Notes of each Series and insuch provisions the expressions "Notes", "Noteholders", "Receipts","Receiptholders", "Coupons", "Couponholders", "Talons" and "Talonholders" shallbe construed accordingly. (5) All references in this Agreement to principal and/or interest orboth in respect of the Notes or to any moneys payable by an Issuer under thisAgreement shall have the meaning set out in Condition 4. (6) All references in this Agreement to the "relevant currency" shallbe construed as references to the currency in which the relevant Notes and/orCoupons are denominated (or payable in the case of Dual Currency Notes). (7) In this Agreement, Clause headings are inserted for convenienceand ease of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of thisAgreement. All references in this Agreement to the provisions of any statuteshall be deemed to be references to that statute as from time to time modified,extended, amended or re-enacted or to any statutory instrument, order orregulation made thereunder or under such re-enactment. (8) All references in this Agreement to an agreement, instrument orother document (including, without limitation, this Agreement, the ProgramAgreement, the Notes and any Terms and Conditions appertaining thereto) shall beconstrued as a reference to that agreement, instrument or document as the samemay be amended, modified, varied or supplemented from time to time. (9) Any references herein to Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourgshall be deemed to include, whenever the context permits, a reference to anyadditional or alternative clearance system approved by the Issuers and theAgent. 2. Appointments of Agent, Paying Agents and Calculation Agents ----------------------------------------------------------- (1) The Issuers hereby continue the appointment of The Chase ManhattanBank, London Branch, as agent, and The Chase Manhattan Bank, London Branch,hereby acknowledges its continued acceptance of such appointment as agent of theIssuers, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set out below, for thepurposes of: (a) completing, authenticating and delivering Global Notes and (if required) authenticating and delivering Definitive Notes; 2  (b) exchanging Temporary Global Notes for Permanent Global Notes or Definitive Notes, as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of such Temporary Global Notes; (c) under limited circumstances, exchanging Permanent Global Notes for Definitive Notes in accordance with the terms of such Permanent Global Notes; (d) paying sums due on Global Notes and Definitive Notes, Receipts and Coupons; (e) determining the end of the Restricted Period applicable to each Tranche; (f) unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, determining the interest and/or other amounts payable in respect of the Notes in accordance with the Terms and Conditions; (g) arranging on behalf of the Issuers for notices to be communicated to the Noteholders; (h) preparing and sending any required periodic reports to the Ministry of Finance of Japan (the "MoF"), the Bank of England or other appropriate authority and, subject to confirmation from the relevant Issuer for the need for such further reporting, ensuring that all necessary action is taken to comply with any reporting requirements of any competent authority of any relevant currency as may be in force from time to time with respect to the Notes to be issued under the Program; (i) subject to the Procedures Memorandum, submitting to the appropriate stock exchange such number of copies of each Pricing Supplement which relates to Notes which are to be listed on that stock exchange as it may reasonably require; (j) receiving notice from Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg relating to the certificates of non-U.S. beneficial ownership of the Notes; and (k) performing all other obligations and duties imposed upon it by the Terms and Conditions, this Agreement or as may be agreed between the relevant Issuer and the Agent in connection with a particular Series or Tranche of Notes.. (2) The relevant Issuer may, in its discretion, appoint (or remove)one or more agents outside the United States and its possessions (each a "PayingAgent") for the payment (subject to applicable laws and regulations) of theprincipal of and any interest and Additional Amounts, if any, (as defined inSection 6 of the Terms and Conditions) on the Notes. Each Issuer hereby appointsChase Manhattan Bank Luxembourg S.A., at its office in Luxembourg at 5 ruePlaetis, L-2338 Luxembourg-Grund, as its Paying Agent in Luxembourg. Upon itswritten acceptance of such appointment or execution of a copy of this Agreement,each Paying Agent shall have the powers and authority granted to and conferredupon it herein and in the Notes, and such further powers and authority,acceptable to it, to act on behalf of the relevant Issuer as such Issuer mayhereafter grant to or confer upon it in writing. As used herein, "payingagencies" shall mean paying agencies maintained by a Paying Agent on behalf ofan Issuer as provided elsewhere herein. (3) The Issuers will appoint an agent to make certain calculationswith respect to the Notes (the "Calculation Agent") pursuant to the Terms andConditions. 3. Issue of Temporary Global Notes ------------------------------- (1) Subject to sub-clause (2), following receipt of a notificationfrom an Issuer in respect of an issue of Notes (such notification being byreceipt of a confirmation (a "Confirmation"), substantially in the 3 applicable form set out in the Procedures Memorandum) the Agent will take thesteps required of the Agent in the Procedures Memorandum. For this purpose theAgent is hereby authorized on behalf of such Issuer: (a) to prepare a Temporary Global Note in accordance with such Confirmation by attaching a copy of the applicable Pricing Supplement to a copy of the relevant master Temporary Global Note; (b) to authenticate (or cause to be authenticated) such Temporary Global Note; (c) to deliver such Temporary Global Note to the specified common depositary of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg in accordance with the Confirmation against receipt from the common depositary of confirmation that such common depositary is holding the Temporary Global Note in safe custody for the account of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg and to instruct Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg or both of them (as the case may be) unless otherwise agreed in writing between the Agent and the relevant Issuer (i) in the case of an issue of Notes on a non-syndicated basis, to credit the Notes represented by such Temporary Global Note to the Agent's distribution account, and (ii) in the case of Notes issued on a syndicated basis, to hold the Notes represented by such Temporary Global Note pursuant to the relevant Issuer's order; and (d) to ensure that the Notes of each Tranche are assigned a Common Code and ISIN by Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg which are different from the Common Code and ISIN assigned to Notes of any other Tranche of the same Series until 40 days after the completion of the distribution of the Notes of such Tranche as notified by the Agent to the relevant Dealer. (2) The Agent shall only be required to perform its obligations undersub-clause (1) if it holds: (a) master Temporary Global Notes, duly executed by a person or persons authorized to execute the same on behalf of the relevant Issuer, which may be used by the Agent for the purpose of preparing Temporary Global Notes in accordance with paragraph (a) of that sub- clause; and (b) master Permanent Global Notes, duly executed by a person or persons authorized to execute the same on behalf of the relevant Issuer, which may be used by the Agent for the purpose of preparing Permanent Global Notes in accordance with Clause 4 below. (3) The Agent will provide Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourgwith the notifications, instructions or other information to be given by theAgent to Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg in accordance with thestandard procedures of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg. 4. Determination of Exchange Date, Issue of Permanent Global Notes --------------------------------------------------------------- or Definitive Notes and Determination of Restricted Period ---------------------------------------------------------- (1) (a) The Agent shall determine the Exchange Date for each Temporary Global Note in accordance with the terms thereof. Forthwith upon determining the Exchange Date in respect of any Tranche, the Agent shall notify such determination to the relevant Issuer, the relevant Dealer, Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg. (b) The Agent shall deliver, upon notice from Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg, a Permanent Global Note or Definitive Notes, as the case may be, in accordance with the terms of the Temporary Global Note. Upon any such exchange of a portion of a Temporary Global Note for an interest in a Permanent Global Note the Agent is hereby authorized on behalf of the relevant Issuer: 4  (i) for the first Tranche of any Series of Notes, to prepare and complete a Permanent Global Note in accordance with the terms of the Temporary Global Note applicable to such Tranche by attaching a copy of the applicable Pricing Supplement to a copy of the relevant master Permanent Global Note; (ii) for the first Tranche of any Series of Notes, to authenticate such Permanent Global Note; (iii) for the first Tranche of any Series of Notes, to deliver such Permanent Global Note to the common depositary which is holding the Temporary Global Note applicable to such Tranche for the time being on behalf of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg either in exchange for such Temporary Global Note or, in the case of a partial exchange, on entering details of such partial exchange of the Temporary Global Note in the relevant spaces in Schedule 2 of both the Temporary Global Note and the Permanent Global Note, and in either case against receipt from the common depositary of confirmation that such common depositary is holding the Permanent Global Note in safe custody for the account of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg; and (iv) in any other case, to attach a copy of the applicable Pricing Supplement to the Permanent Global Note applicable to the relevant Series and enter details of any exchange in whole or part as aforesaid. (2) (a) For a Tranche in respect of which there is only one Dealer, the Agent will determine the end of the Restricted Period in respect of such Tranche as being the fortieth day following the date certified by the relevant Dealer to the Agent as being the date as of which distribution of the Notes of that Tranche was completed. (b) For a Tranche in respect of which there is more than one Dealer but is not issued on a syndicated basis, the Agent will determine the end of the Restricted Period in respect of such Tranche as being the fortieth day following the latest of the dates certified by all the relevant Dealers to the Agent as being the respective dates as of which distribution of the Notes of that Tranche purchased by each such dealer was completed. (c) For a Tranche issued on a syndicated basis, the Agent will determine the end of the Restricted Period in respect of such Tranche as being the fortieth day following the date certified by the Lead Manager to the Agent as being the date as of which distribution of the Notes of that Tranche was completed. (d) Forthwith upon determining the end of the Restricted Period in respect of any Tranche, the Agent shall notify such determination to the relevant Issuer and the relevant Dealer or the Lead Manager in the case of a syndicated issue. 5. Issue of Definitive Notes ------------------------- (1) Interests in a Global Note will be exchangeable for DefinitiveNotes with Coupons attached only if: (i) an Event of Default (as defined in theTerms and Conditions) occurs and is continuing, or (ii) the relevant Issuer isnotified that either Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg has been closed forbusiness for a continuous period of 14 days (other than by reason of holiday,statutory or otherwise) after the original issuance of the Notes or hasannounced an intention permanently to cease business or has in fact done so andno alternative clearance system approved by the Noteholders is available, or(iii) the relevant Issuer, after notice to the Agent, determines to issue Notesin definitive form. Upon the occurrence of these events, the Agent shall deliverthe relevant Definitive Note(s) in accordance with the terms of the relevantGlobal Note. For this purpose the Agent is hereby authorized on behalf of therelevant Issuer: (a) to authenticate such Definitive Note(s) in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and 5  (b) to deliver such Definitive Note(s) to or to the order of Euroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg in exchange for such Global Note.The Agent shall notify the relevant Issuer forthwith upon receipt of a requestfor issue of (a) Definitive Note(s) in accordance with the provisions of aGlobal Note and this Agreement (and the aggregate principal amount of suchTemporary Global Note or Permanent Global Note, as the case may be, to beexchanged in connection therewith). (2) The relevant Issuer undertakes to deliver to the Agent sufficientnumbers of executed Definitive Notes with, if applicable, Receipts, Coupons andTalons attached to enable the Agent to comply with its obligations under thisClause 5. 6. Terms of Issue -------------- (1) The Agent shall cause all Temporary Global Notes, PermanentGlobal Notes and Definitive Notes delivered to and held by it under thisAgreement to be maintained in safe custody and shall ensure that such Notes areissued only in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the relevantGlobal Note and Terms and Conditions. (2) Subject to the procedures set out in the Procedures Memorandum,for the purposes of Clause 3(1) the Agent is entitled to treat a telephone,telex or facsimile communication from a person purporting to be (and who theAgent believes in good faith to be) the authorized representative of therelevant Issuer named in the lists referred to in, or notified pursuant to,Clause 17(7) as sufficient instructions and authority of such Issuer for theAgent to act in accordance with Clause 3(l). (3) If a person who has signed on behalf of the relevant Issuer anyNote not yet issued but held by the Agent in accordance with Clause 3(1) ceasesto be authorized as described in Clause 17(7), the Agent shall (unless suchIssuer gives notice to the Agent that Notes signed by that person do notconstitute valid and binding obligations of such Issuer or otherwise untilreplacements have been provided to the Agent) continue to have authority toissue any such Notes, and the relevant Issuer hereby warrants to the Agent thatsuch Notes shall, unless notified as aforesaid, be valid and binding obligationsof such Issuer. Promptly upon such person ceasing to be authorized, the relevantIssuer shall provide the Agent with replacement Notes and upon receipt of suchreplacement Notes the Agent shall cancel and destroy the Notes held by it whichare signed by such person and shall provide to the relevant Issuer aconfirmation of destruction in respect thereof specifying the Notes so canceledand destroyed. (4) If the Agent pays an amount (the "Advance") to an Issuer on thebasis that a payment (the "Payment") has been, or will be, received from aDealer and if the Payment is not received by the Agent on the date the Agentpays such Issuer, the Agent shall notify such Issuer by tested telex orfacsimile that the Payment has not been received and such Issuer shall repay tothe Agent the Advance and shall pay interest on the Advance (or the unreimbursedportion thereof) from (and including) the date such Advance is made to (butexcluding) the earlier of repayment of the Advance and receipt by the Agent ofthe Payment (at a rate quoted at that time by the Agent as its cost of fundingthe Advance). (5) Except in the case of issues where the Agent does not act asreceiving bank for the relevant Issuer in respect of the purchase price of theNotes being issued, if on the relevant Issue Date a Dealer does not pay the fullpurchase price due from it in respect of any Note (the "Defaulted Note") and, asa result, the Defaulted Note remains in the Agent's distribution account withEuroclear and/or Clearstream, Luxembourg) after such Issue Date, the Agent willcontinue to hold the Defaulted Note pursuant to the order of the relevantIssuer. The Agent shall notify the relevant Issuer forthwith of the failure ofthe Dealer to pay the full purchase price due from it in respect of anyDefaulted Note and, subsequently, shall notify such Issuer forthwith uponreceipt from the Dealer of the full purchase price in respect of such DefaultedNote. 7. Payments -------- 6  (1) The Agent shall advise the relevant Issuer, no later than 10Business Days (as defined below) immediately preceding the date on which anypayment is to be made to the Agent pursuant to this sub-clause (1) of thepayment amount, value date and payment instructions and the relevant Issuer willbefore 10:00 a.m. New York time on each date on which any payment in respect ofany Notes issued by it becomes due, transfer to an account specified by theAgent such amount in the relevant currency as shall be sufficient for thepurposes of such payment in funds settled through such payment system as theAgent and the relevant Issuer may agree. (2) The relevant Issuer will ensure that no later than 4:00 p.m.(London time) on the second Business Day (as defined below) immediatelypreceding the date on which any payment is to be made to the Agent pursuant tosub-clause (1), the Agent shall receive from the paying bank of the relevantIssuer an irrevocable confirmation in the form of a SWIFT message or testedtelex that such payment shall be made. For the purposes of this Clause 7"Business Day" means a day which is both: (a) a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London and in Charlotte, North Carolina and any other place specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement; and (b) in relation to a payment to be made in a Specified Currency, a day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in the principal financial center of the country of the relevant Specified Currency (if other than London). (3) The Agent shall ensure that payments of both principal andinterest in respect of any Temporary Global Note will be made only to the extentthat certification of non-U.S. beneficial ownership as required by U.S.securities laws and U.S. Treasury regulations (in the form set out in theTemporary Global Note) has been received from Euroclear and/or Clearstream,Luxembourg in accordance with the terms thereof. (4) Subject to the receipt by the Agent of the payment confirmation asprovided in sub-clause (2) above, the Agent or the relevant Paying Agent shallpay or cause to be paid all amounts due in respect of the Notes on behalf of therelevant Issuer in the manner provided in the Terms and Conditions. If anypayment provided for in sub-clause (l) is made late but otherwise in accordancewith the provisions of this Agreement, the Agent and each Paying Agent shallnevertheless make payments in respect of the Notes as aforesaid followingreceipt by it of such payment. (5) If for any reason the Agent considers in its sole discretion thatthe amounts to be received by the Agent pursuant to sub-clause (1) will be, orthe amounts actually received by it pursuant thereto are, insufficient tosatisfy all claims in respect of all payments then falling due in respect of theNotes, neither the Agent nor any Paying Agent shall be obliged to pay any suchclaims until the Agent has received the full amount of all such payments. Shouldthe Agent or any Paying Agent elect not to make payment of amounts falling duein respect of the Notes as aforesaid, it shall advise the relevant Issuer of anysuch decision as soon as practicable by telephone with confirmation by telefax. (6) Without prejudice to sub-clauses (4) and (5), if the Agent paysany amounts to the holders of Notes, Receipts or Coupons or to any Paying Agentat a time when it has not received payment in full in respect of the relevantNotes in accordance with sub-clause (1) (the excess of the amounts so paid overthe amounts so received being the "Shortfall"), the relevant Issuer will, inaddition to paying amounts due under sub-clause (l), pay to the Agent on demandinterest (at a rate which represents the Agent's cost of funding the Shortfall)on the Shortfall (or the unreimbursed portion thereof) until the receipt in fullby the Agent of the Shortfall. (7) The Agent shall on demand promptly reimburse each Paying Agent forpayments in respect of Notes properly made by such Paying Agent in accordancewith this Agreement and the Terms and Conditions unless the Agent has notifiedthe Paying Agent, prior to the opening of business in the location of the officeof the Paying Agent through which payment in respect of the Notes can be madeprior to the day on which such Agent has to give payment instructions in respectof the due date of a payment in respect of the Notes, that the Agent does notexpect to receive sufficient funds to make payment of all amounts falling due inrespect of such Notes. 7  (8) If the Agent pays out on or after the due date therefor, orbecomes liable to pay out, funds on the assumption that the correspondingpayment by the relevant Issuer has been or will be made and such payment has infact not been so made by such Issuer, then such Issuer shall on demand reimbursethe Agent for the relevant amount, and pay interest to the Agent on such amountfrom the date on which it is paid out to the date of reimbursement at a rate perannum equal to the cost to the Agent of funding the amount paid out, ascertified by the Agent and expressed as a rate per annum. For the avoidance ofdoubt, the provisions of the Terms and Conditions as to subordination shall notapply to the relevant Issuer's obligations under this sub-clause (8). (9) While any Notes are represented by a Global Note or Global Notes,all payments due in respect of such Notes shall be made to, or to the order of,the holder of the Global Note or Global Notes, subject to and in accordance withthe provisions of the Global Note or Global Notes. On the occasion of any suchpayment the Paying Agent to which any Global Note was presented for the purposeof making such payment shall cause the appropriate Schedule to the relevantGlobal Note to be annotated so as to evidence the amounts and dates of suchpayments of principal and/or interest as applicable. (10) If the amount of principal and/or interest then due for paymentis not paid in full (otherwise than by reason of a deduction required by law tobe made therefrom), the Paying Agent to which a Note is presented for thepurpose of making such payment shall make a record of such shortfall on the Noteand such record shall, in the absence of manifest error, be prima facie evidencethat the payment in question has not to that extent been made. 8. Determinations and Notifications in Respect of Notes ---------------------------------------------------- and Interest Determination -------------------------- (a) Determinations and Notifications -------------------------------- (1) The Agent shall make all such determinations and calculations(howsoever described) as it is required to do under the Terms and Conditions,all subject to and in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, provided thatcertain calculations with respect to the Notes, and associated publication ornotification, shall be made by the Calculation Agent in accordance with theTerms and Conditions. (2) The Agent or the Calculation Agent, as the case may be, shall notbe responsible to the relevant Issuer or to any third party (except in the eventof gross negligence, default or bad faith of the Agent or the Calculation Agent)as a result of the Agent or the Calculation Agent having acted in good faith onany quotation given by any Reference Bank which subsequently may be found to beincorrect. (3) The Agent or the Calculation Agent, as the case may be, shallpromptly notify (and confirm in writing to) the relevant Issuer, the otherPaying Agents and (in respect of a Series of Notes listed on a stock exchange)the relevant stock exchange of, inter alia, each Rate of Interest, InterestAmount and Interest Payment Date and all other amounts, rates and dates which itis obliged to determine or calculate under the Terms and Conditions as soon aspracticable after the determination thereof (and in any event no later than thetenth Business Day as defined in Clause 7(2) immediately preceding the date onwhich payment is to be made to the Agent pursuant to Clause 7(l)) and of anysubsequent amendment thereto pursuant to the Terms and Conditions. (4) The Agent or the Calculation Agent, as the case may be, shall useits best efforts to cause each Rate of Interest, Interest Amount and InterestPayment Date and all other amounts, rates and dates which it is obliged todetermine or calculate under the Terms and Conditions to be published asrequired in accordance with the Terms and Conditions as soon as possible aftertheir determination or calculation. (5) If the Agent or the Calculation Agent, as the case may be, doesnot at any material time for any reason determine and/or calculate and/orpublish the Rate of Interest, Interest Amount and/or Interest Payment Date inrespect of any Interest Period or any other amount, rate or date as provided inthis Clause 8, it shall forthwith notify the relevant Issuer and the PayingAgents of such fact. (6) Determinations with regard to Notes (including, withoutlimitation, Indexed Notes and Dual Currency Notes) shall be made by theCalculation Agent specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement in the 8 manner specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Unless otherwise agreedbetween the relevant Issuer and the relevant Dealer, such determinations shallbe made on the basis of a Calculation Agency Agreement substantially in the formof Schedule 9 to this Agreement. (7) For the purposes of monitoring the aggregate principal amount ofNotes issued under the Program, the Agent shall determine the U.S. Dollarequivalent of the principal amount of each issue of Notes denominated in anothercurrency, each issue of Dual Currency Notes, each Issue of Partly Paid Notes andeach issue of Indexed Notes as follows: (A) the U.S. Dollar equivalent of Notes denominated in a currency other than U.S. Dollars shall be determined as of the Agreement Date for such Notes on the basis of the spot rate for the sale of the U.S. Dollar against the purchase of the relevant currency quoted by a foreign exchange dealer selected by the relevant Issuer on the relevant day of calculation; and (B) the U.S. Dollar equivalent of Dual Currency Notes and Indexed Notes (other than Indexed Redemption Amount Notes) shall be calculated in the manner specified above by reference to the original nominal amount of such Notes; and (C) the U.S. Dollar equivalent of Zero Coupon Notes, other Notes issued at a discount or premium and Indexed Redemption Amount Notes shall be calculated in the manner specified above by reference to the net proceeds received by the relevant Issuer for the relevant issue; and (D) the U.S. Dollar equivalent of Partly Paid Notes shall be determined in the manner specified above by reference to the original principal amount of such Notes regardless of the amount paid on the Notes. (b) Interest Determination, Screen Rate Determination including ----------------------------------------------------------- Fallback Provisions ------------------- (1) Where screen rate determination ("Screen Rate Determination") isspecified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as the manner in which the Rateof Interest is to be determined, the Rate of Interest for each Interest Period,subject as provided below, will be either: (A) the offered quotation (if there is only one quotation on the relevant screen page (the "Relevant Screen Page")); or (B) the arithmetic mean (rounded if necessary to the fifth decimal place, with 0.000005 being rounded upwards) of the offered quotations,(expressed as a percentage rate per annum), for the reference rate ("ReferenceRate") which appears or appear, as the case may be, on the Relevant Screen Pageat approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the interest determination date("Interest Determination Date") in question plus or minus (as indicated in theapplicable Pricing Supplement) the Margin (if any), all as determined by theCalculation Agent. If five or more such offered quotations are available on theRelevant Screen Page, the highest (or, if there is more than one such highestquotation, one only of such quotations) and the lowest (or, if there is morethan one such lowest quotation, one only of such quotations) shall bedisregarded by the Calculation Agent for the purpose of determining thearithmetic mean (rounded as provided above) of such offered quotations. (2) If the Relevant Screen Page is not available or if, in the caseof sub-clause (b)(1)(A) above, no such offered quotation appears or, in the caseof sub-clause (b)(1)(B) above, fewer than three such offered quotations appear,in each case as at the time specified in the preceding paragraph, theCalculation Agent shall at its sole discretion request the principal Londonoffice of each of the Reference Banks (defined below) to provide the CalculationAgent with its offered quotation (expressed as a percentage rate per annum) fordeposits in the Specified Currency for the relevant Interest Period to leadingbanks in the London inter-bank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time)on the Interest Determination Date in question. If two or more of the ReferenceBanks provide the Calculation Agent with such offered quotations, the Rate ofInterest for such Interest Period shall be the 9 arithmetic mean (rounded if necessary to the fifth decimal place with 0.000005being rounded upwards) of such offered quotations plus or minus (as appropriate)the Margin (if any), all as determined by the Calculation Agent. (3) If on any Interest Determination Date one only or none of theReference Banks provides the Calculation Agent with such offered quotations asprovided in the preceding paragraph, the Rate of Interest for the relevantInterest Period shall be the rate per annum which the Calculation Agentdetermines as being the arithmetic mean (rounded if necessary to the fifthdecimal place, with 0.000005 being rounded upwards) of the rates, ascommunicated to (and at the request of) the Calculation Agent by the ReferenceBanks or any two or more of them, at which such banks offered, at approximately11:00 a.m. (London time) on the relevant Interest Determination Date, depositsin the Specified Currency for the relevant Interest Period by leading banks inthe London inter-bank market plus or minus (as appropriate) the Margin (if any).If fewer than two of the Reference Banks provide the Calculation Agent with suchoffered quotations, the Rate of Interest shall be the offered quotation fordeposits in the Specified Currency for the relevant Interest Period, or thearithmetic mean (rounded as provided above) of the offered quotations fordeposits in the Specified Currency for the relevant Interest Period, at which,at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the relevant Interest DeterminationDate, any one or more banks informs the Calculation Agent it is quoting toleading banks in the London inter-bank market plus or minus (as appropriate) theMargin (if any), provided that, if the Rate of Interest cannot be determined inaccordance with the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the Rate of Interestshall be determined as at the last preceding Interest Determination Date (thoughsubstituting, where a different Margin is to be applied to the relevant InterestPeriod from that which applied to the last preceding Interest Period, the Marginrelating to the relevant Interest Period, in place of the Margin relating tothat last preceding Interest Period). (4) If the Reference Rate from time to time in respect of FloatingRate Notes is specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement as being other thanthe London inter-bank offered rate, the Rate of Interest in respect of suchNotes will be determined as provided in the applicable Pricing Supplement. In this Clause 8, the expression "Reference Banks" means, in the caseof sub-clause (b)(1)(A) above, those banks whose offered rates were used todetermine such quotation when such quotation last appeared on the RelevantScreen Page and in the case of sub-clause (b)(1)(B) above, those banks whoseoffered quotations last appeared on the Relevant Screen Page when no fewer thanthree such offered quotations appeared. 9. Notice of any Withholding or Deduction -------------------------------------- If the relevant Issuer, in respect of any payment, is compelled towithhold or deduct any amount for or on account of taxes, duties, assessments orgovernmental charges as specifically contemplated under the Terms andConditions, the relevant Issuer shall give notice thereof to the Agent as soonas it becomes aware of the requirement to make such withholding or deduction andshall give to the Agent such information as it shall require to enable it tocomply with such requirement. 10. Duties of the Agent in Connection with Early Redemption ------------------------------------------------------- (1) If the relevant Issuer decides to redeem any outstanding Notes(in whole or in part) for the time being outstanding prior to their MaturityDate or the Interest Payment Date falling in the Redemption Month (as the casemay be) in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, such Issuer shall givenotice of such decision to the Agent not less than seven London Business Daysbefore the date on which such Issuer will give notice to the Noteholders inaccordance with the Terms and Conditions of such redemption in order to enablethe Agent to undertake its obligations herein and in the Terms and Conditions. (2) If only some of the Notes of like tenor and of the same Seriesare to be redeemed on such date, the Agent shall make the required drawing inaccordance with the Terms and Conditions but shall give the relevant Issuerreasonable notice of the time and place proposed for such drawing. Where partialredemptions are to be effected when there are Definitive Notes outstanding, theIssuing and Principal Paying Agent will select by lot the Notes to be redeemedfrom the outstanding Notes in compliance with all applicable laws and stockexchange requirements and deemed by the Agent to be appropriate and fair; andwhere partial redemptions are to be effected when there are no Definitive Notesoutstanding, the rights of Noteholders will be governed by the standardprovisions of Euroclear and Clearstream, Luxembourg. Notice of any partialredemption and, when there are 10 Definitive Notes outstanding, of the serial numbers of the Notes so drawn, willbe given by the Agent to the Noteholders in accordance with the terms of theNotes and this Agreement. (3) The Agent shall publish the notice on behalf of and at the expenseof the relevant Issuer required in connection with any such redemption and shallat the same time also publish a separate list of the serial numbers of any Notespreviously drawn and not presented for redemption. Such notice shall specify thedate fixed for redemption, the redemption amount, the manner in which redemptionwill be effected and, in the case of a partial redemption, the serial numbers ofthe Notes to be redeemed. Such notice will be published in accordance with theTerms and Conditions. The Agent will also notify the other Paying Agents of anydate fixed for redemption of any Notes. (4) Immediately prior to the date on which any notice of redemption isto be given to the Noteholders, the relevant Issuer shall deliver to the Agent acertificate stating that such Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption andsetting forth in reasonable detail a statement of facts showing that allconditions precedent to such redemption have occurred or been satisfied andshall comply with all notice requirements provided for in the Terms andConditions. (5) Each Paying Agent will keep a stock of notices (each a "PutNotice") in the form set out in Schedule 8 and will make such notices availableon demand to holders of Notes, the Terms and Conditions of which provide forredemption at the option of Noteholders. Upon receipt of any Note deposited inthe exercise of such option in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, thePaying Agent with which such Note is deposited shall hold such Note (togetherwith any Coupons, if any, relating to it and deposited with it) on behalf of thedepositing Noteholder (but shall not, save as provided below, release it) untilthe due date for redemption of the relevant Note consequent upon the exercise ofsuch option, when, subject as provided below, it shall present such Note (andany such Coupons, if any) to itself for payment of the amount due thereontogether with any interest due on such date in accordance with the Terms andConditions and shall pay such moneys in accordance with the directions of theNoteholder contained in the Put Notice. If, prior to such due date for itsredemption, such Note becomes immediately due and payable or if upon duepresentation payment of such redemption moneys is improperly withheld orrefused, the Paying Agent concerned shall post such Note (together with any suchCoupons, if any) by uninsured post to, and at the risk of, the relevantNoteholder unless the Noteholder has otherwise requested and paid the costs ofsuch insurance to the relevant Paying Agent at the time of depositing the Notesat such address as may have been given by the Noteholder in the Put Notice. Atthe end of each period for the exercise of such option, each Paying Agent shallpromptly notify the Agent of the principal amount of the Notes in respect ofwhich such option has been exercised with it together with their serial numbersand the Agent shall promptly notify such details to the relevant Issuer. 11. Receipt and Publication of Notices; Receipt of Certificates ----------------------------------------------------------- (1) Upon the receipt by the Agent of a demand or notice from anyNoteholder in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, the Agent shall forwarda copy thereof to the relevant Issuer. (2) On behalf of and at the request and expense of the relevantIssuer, the Agent shall cause to be published all notices required to be givenby such Issuer to the Noteholders in accordance with the Terms and Conditions. (3) The Agent shall have no responsibility to obtain the certificateof the relevant Issuer delivered by such Issuer to the Agent pursuant toCondition 9 if such a certificate is required to be issued, nor shall the Agenthave any responsibility to notify the relevant Issuer that the Agent has notobtained such a certificate from such Issuer if such a certificate is requiredto be issued. 12. Cancellation of Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons --------------------------------------------------- (1) All Notes which are redeemed, all Receipts or Coupons which arepaid and all Talons which are exchanged shall be delivered outside the UnitedStates to the Agent, and shall be canceled by the Agent. In addition, all Noteswhich are purchased by or on behalf of the relevant Issuer or any of itssubsidiaries and are 11 surrendered to the Agent for cancellation, together (in the case of Notes indefinitive form) with all unmatured Receipts, Coupons or Talons (if any)attached thereto or surrendered therewith, shall be canceled by the Agent. (2) The relevant Issuer shall have the right to request that theAgent provide, without limitation, the following information: (a) the aggregate principal amount of Notes which have been redeemed and the aggregate amount paid in respect thereof; (b) the number of Notes canceled together (in the case of Definitive Notes, if any) with details of all unmatured Receipts, Coupons or Talons (if any) attached thereto or delivered therewith; (c) the aggregate amount paid in respect of interest on the Notes; (d) the total number by maturity date of Receipts, Coupons and Talons so canceled; and (e) (in the case of Definitive Notes, if any) the serial numbers of such Notes,which shall be given to the relevant Issuer by the Agent as soon as reasonablypracticable and in any event within three months after the date of suchrepayment or, as the case may be, payment or exchange. (3) The Agent shall destroy all canceled Notes, Receipts, Coupons andTalons. (4) The Agent shall keep a full and complete record of all Notes,Receipts, Coupons and Talons (other than serial numbers of Coupons, except thosewhich have been replaced pursuant to Condition 10) and of all replacement Notes,Receipts, Coupons or Talons issued in substitution for mutilated, defaced,destroyed, lost or stolen Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons. The Agent shall atall reasonable times make such record available to the relevant Issuer and anypersons authorized by it for inspection and for the taking of copies thereof orextracts therefrom. (5) All records and certificates made or given pursuant to thisClause 12 and Clause 13 shall make a distinction between Notes, Receipts,Coupons and Talons of each Series. 13. Issue of Replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons -------------------------------------------------------- (1) The Issuers will cause a sufficient quantity of additional formsof Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons to be available, upon request to theAgent in Luxembourg (in such capacity, the "Replacement Agent") at its specifiedoffice for the purpose of issuing replacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons andTalons as provided below. (2) The Replacement Agent will, subject to and in accordance with theTerms and Conditions and the following provisions of this Clause 13,authenticate and cause to be delivered any replacement Notes, Receipts, Couponsand Talons which the relevant Issuer may determine to issue in place of Notes,Receipts, Coupons and Talons which have been lost, stolen, mutilated, defaced ordestroyed. (3) In the case of a mutilated or defaced Note, the Replacement Agentshall ensure that (unless otherwise covered by such indemnity as the relevantIssuer may reasonably require) any replacement Note will only have attached toit Receipts, Coupons and Talons corresponding to those (if any) attached to themutilated or defaced Note which is presented for replacement. (4) The Replacement Agent shall not issue any replacement Note,Receipt, Coupon or Talon unless and until the applicant therefor shall have: 12  (a) paid such reasonable costs and expenses as may be incurred in connection therewith, including any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto; (b) furnished it with such evidence and indemnity as the relevant Issuer may reasonably require; and (c) in the case of any mutilated or defaced Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon, surrendered it to the Replacement Agent. (5) The Replacement Agent shall cancel any mutilated or defacedNotes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons in respect of which replacement Notes,Receipts, Coupons and Talons have been issued pursuant to this Clause 13 andshall furnish the relevant Issuer with a certificate stating the serial numbersof the Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons so canceled and, unless otherwiseinstructed by such Issuer in writing, shall destroy such canceled Notes,Receipts, Coupons and Talons and furnish such Issuer with a destructioncertificate stating the serial number of the Notes (in the case of DefinitiveNotes) and the number by maturity date of Receipts, Coupons and Talons sodestroyed. (6) The Replacement Agent shall, on issuing any replacement Note,Receipt, Coupon or Talon, forthwith inform the relevant Issuer, the Agent andthe other Paying Agents of the serial number of such replacement Note, Receipt,Coupon or Talon issued and (if known) of the serial number of the Note, Receipt,Coupon or Talon in place of which such replacement Note, Receipt, Coupon orTalon has been issued. Whenever replacement Receipts, Coupons or Talons areissued pursuant to the provisions of this Clause 13, the Replacement Agent shallalso notify the Agent and the other Paying Agents of the maturity dates of thelost, stolen, mutilated, defaced or destroyed Receipts, Coupons or Talons and ofthe replacement Receipts, Coupons or Talons issued. (7) The Agent shall keep a full and complete record of allreplacement Notes, Receipts, Coupons and Talons issued and shall make suchrecord available at all reasonable times to the relevant Issuer and any personsauthorized by it for inspection and for the taking of copies thereof or extractstherefrom. (8) Whenever any Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon for which areplacement Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon has been issued and in respect ofwhich the serial number is known is presented to the Agent or any of the PayingAgents for payment, the Agent or, as the case may be, the relevant Paying Agentshall immediately send notice thereof to the relevant Issuer and the otherPaying Agents and shall not make payment in respect thereto, until instructed bysuch Issuer. 14. Copies of Documents Available for Inspection -------------------------------------------- The Agent and the Paying Agents shall hold available for inspection copies of: (i) the organizational documents of the Issuers; (ii) the latest available audited consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, beginning with such financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 1999 and the publicly available portions of the Call Reports with respect to the Bank beginning with the period ending December 31, 1999; (iii) the Program Agreement and this Agreement; (iv) the Offering Circular; and (v) any future offering circulars, information memoranda and supplements (except that a Pricing Supplement relating to any unlisted Note will only be available for inspection by a holder of such Note and such holder must produce evidence satisfactory to the Paying Agent as to ownership) to the Offering Circular and any other documents incorporated therein by reference and in the case of a syndicated issue of listed Notes, the syndication agreement (or equivalent document). 13  For this purpose, the Issuers shall furnish the Agent and the PayingAgents with sufficient copies of each of such documents. 15. Meetings of Noteholders ----------------------- (1) The provisions of Schedule 7 hereto shall apply to meetings ofthe Noteholders and shall have effect in the same manner as if set out in thisAgreement. (2) Without prejudice to sub-clause (l), each of the Agent and thePaying Agents on the request of any Noteholder shall issue voting certificatesand block voting instructions in accordance with Schedule 7 and shall forthwithgive notice to the relevant Issuer in writing of any revocation or amendment ofa block voting instruction. Each of the Agent and the Paying Agents will keep afull and complete record of all voting certificates and block votinginstructions issued by it and, not less than 24 hours before the time appointedfor holding a meeting or adjourned meeting, will deposit at such place as theAgent shall designate or approve, full particulars of all voting certificatesand block voting instructions issued by it in respect of such meeting oradjourned meeting. 16. Repayment by the Agent ---------------------- Upon the relevant Issuer being discharged from its obligation to makepayments in respect of any Notes pursuant to the relevant Terms and Conditions,and provided that there is no outstanding, bona fide and proper claim in respectof any such payments, the Agent shall forthwith on written demand pay to therelevant Issuer sums equivalent to any amounts paid to it by such Issuer for thepurposes of such payments. 17. Conditions of Appointment ------------------------- (1) The Agent shall be entitled to deal with money paid to it by anIssuer for the purpose of this Agreement in the same manner as other money paidto a banker by its customers except: (a) that it shall not exercise any right of set-off, lien or similar claim in respect thereof; and (b) as provided in sub-clause (2) below; and (c) that it shall not be liable to account to the relevant Issuer for any interest thereon. (2) In acting hereunder and in connection with the Notes, the Agentand the Paying Agents shall act solely as agents of the Issuers and will notthereby assume any obligations towards or relationship of agency or trust for orwith any of the owners or holders of the Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons. (3) The Agent and the Paying Agents hereby undertake to the Issuersto perform such obligations and duties, and shall be obliged to perform suchduties and only such duties as are herein, in the Terms and Conditions and inthe Procedures Memorandum specifically set forth and no implied duties orobligations shall be read into this Agreement or the Notes against the Agent andthe Paying Agents, other than the duty to act honestly and in good faith. (4) The Agent may consult with legal and other professional advisersand the opinion of such advisers shall be full and complete protection inrespect of any action taken, omitted or suffered hereunder in good faith and inaccordance with the opinion of such advisers. (5) Each of the Agent and the Paying Agents shall be protected andshall incur no liability for or in respect of any action taken, omitted orsuffered in reliance upon any instruction, request or order from the relevantIssuer or any notice, resolution, direction, consent, certificate, affidavit,statement, cable, telex or other paper or document which it reasonably believesto be genuine and to have been delivered, signed or sent by the proper party orparties or upon written instructions from the relevant Issuer. 14  (6) Any of the Agent and the Paying Agents and their officers,directors and employees may become the owner of, or acquire any interest in anyNotes, Receipts, Coupons or Talons with the same rights that it or he would haveif the Agent or the relevant Paying Agent, as the case may be, concerned werenot appointed hereunder, and may engage or be interested in any financial orother transactions with the relevant Issuer and may act on, or as depositary,trustee or agent for, any committee or body of Noteholders or Couponholders orin connection with any other obligations of the relevant Issuer as freely as ifthe Agent or the relevant Paying Agent, as the case may be, were not appointedhereunder. (7) The relevant Issuer shall provide the Agent with a certified copyof the list of persons authorized to execute documents and take action on itsbehalf in connection with this Agreement and shall notify the Agent immediatelyin writing if any of such persons ceases to be so authorized or if anyadditional person becomes so authorized together, in the case of an additionalauthorized person, with evidence satisfactory to the Agent that such person hasbeen so authorized, provided, however, that the Agent shall not incur anyliability for any losses, claims or damages resulting from the relevant Issuer'sfailure to provide such notification to the Agent. 18. Communication Between the Parties --------------------------------- A copy of all communications relating to the subject matter of thisAgreement between any Issuer and the Noteholders, Receiptholders orCouponholders and any of the Paying Agents shall be sent to the Agent by therelevant Paying Agent. 19. Changes in Agent and Paying Agents ---------------------------------- (1) The Issuers agree that, for so long as any Note is outstanding,or until moneys for the payment of all amounts in respect of all outstandingNotes have been made available to the Agent or have been returned to therelevant Issuer as provided herein: (a) so long as any Notes are listed on any stock exchange, there will at all times be a Paying Agent with a specified office in such place as may be required by the rules and regulations of the relevant stock exchange; (b) there will at all times be a Paying Agent with a specified office in a city in continental Europe; and (c) there will at all times be an Agent. In addition, the Issuers shall appoint a Paying Agent having aspecified office in New York City in the circumstances described in the finalparagraph of Condition 4(b). Any variation, termination, appointment or changeshall only take effect (other than in the case of insolvency (as provided insub-clause (5)), when it shall be of immediate effect) after not less than 30nor more than 45 days' prior notice thereof shall have been given to theNoteholders in accordance with the Terms and Conditions. (2) The Agent may (subject as provided in sub-clause (4)) at any timeresign as Agent by giving at least 90 days' written notice to the Issuers ofsuch intention on its part, specifying the date on which its desired resignationshall become effective, provided that such date shall never be less than threemonths after the receipt of such notice by the Issuers unless the Issuers agreeto accept less notice. (3) The Agent may (subject as provided in sub-clause (4)) be removedat any time on at least 45 days' notice by the filing with it of an instrumentin writing signed on behalf of each Issuer specifying such removal and the datewhen it shall become effective. (4) Any resignation under sub-clause (2) or removal under sub-clause(3) shall only take effect upon the appointment by the Issuers as hereinafterprovided, of a successor Agent and (other than in cases of insolvency of theAgent) on the expiration of the notice to be given under Clause 21. The Issuersagree with the Agent that if, by the day falling ten days before the expirationof any notice under sub-clause (2), the Issuers have 15 not appointed a successor Agent, then the Agent shall be entitled, on behalf ofthe Issuers, to appoint as a successor Agent in its place a reputable financialinstitution of good standing as it may reasonably determine to be capable ofperforming the duties of the Agent hereunder. (5) In case at any time the Agent resigns, or is removed, or becomesincapable of acting or is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent, or files a voluntarypetition in bankruptcy or makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditorsor consents to the appointment of an administrator, liquidator or administrativeor other receiver of all or a substantial part of its property, or admits inwriting its inability to pay or meet its debts as they mature or suspendspayment thereof, or if any order of any court is entered approving any petitionfiled by or against it under the provisions of any applicable bankruptcy orinsolvency law or if a receiver of it or of all or a substantial part of itsproperty is appointed or any officer takes charge or control of it or of itsproperty or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation orliquidation, a successor Agent, which shall be a reputable financial institutionof good standing, may be appointed by the Issuers by an instrument in writingfiled with the successor Agent. Upon the appointment as aforesaid of a successorAgent and acceptance by the latter of such appointment and (other than in caseof insolvency of the Agent) upon expiration of the notice to be given underClause 21 the Agent so superseded shall cease to be the Agent hereunder. (6) Subject to sub-clause (l): (A) the Issuers may, after prior consultation (other than in the case of insolvency of any Paying Agent) with the Agent, terminate the appointment of any of the Paying Agents at any time; and/or (B) the Issuers may in respect of the Program or the relevant Issuer may in respect of any Series of Notes, if so required by the relevant Stock Exchange or regulatory body, appoint one or more further Paying Agents by giving to the Agent, and to the relevant Paying Agent, at least 45 days' notice in writing to that effect. (7) Subject to sub-clause (l), all or any of the Paying Agents mayresign their respective appointments hereunder at any time by giving the Issuersand the Agent at least 45 days' written notice to that effect. (8) Upon its resignation or removal becoming effective the Agent orthe relevant Paying Agent: (a) shall, in the case of the Agent, forthwith transfer all moneys held by it hereunder and the records referred to in Clause 12(4) to the successor Agent hereunder; and (b) shall be entitled to the payment by the Issuers of its commissions, fees and expenses for the services theretofore rendered hereunder in accordance with the terms of Clause 25. (9) Upon its appointment becoming effective, a successor Agent andany new Paying Agent, without further act, deed or conveyance, shall becomevested with all the authority, rights, powers, trusts, immunities, duties andobligations of its predecessor or, as the case may be, a Paying Agent with likeeffect as if originally named as Agent or (as the case may be) a Paying Agenthereunder. 20. Merger and Consolidation ------------------------ Any corporation into which the Agent or any Paying Agent may be mergedor converted, or any corporation with which the Agent or any of the PayingAgents may be consolidated or any corporation resulting from any merger,conversion or consolidation to which the Agent or any of the Paying Agents shallbe a party, or any corporation to which the Agent or any of the Paying Agentsshall sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all the assets of theAgent or any Paying Agent shall, on the date when such merger, conversion,consolidation or transfer becomes effective and to the extent permitted by anyapplicable laws, become the successor Agent or, as the case may be, Paying Agentunder this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any furtheract on the part of the parties hereto, unless otherwise required by the Issuers,and after the said effective date all references 16 in this Agreement to the Agent or, as the case may be, such Paying Agent shallbe deemed to be references to such corporation. Written notice of any suchmerger, conversion, consolidation or transfer shall forthwith be given to theIssuers by the relevant Agent or Paying Agent. 21. Notification of Changes to Paying Agents ---------------------------------------- Following receipt of notice of resignation from the Agent or anyPaying Agent and forthwith upon appointing a successor Agent or, as the case maybe, other Paying Agents or on giving notice to terminate the appointment of anyAgent or, as the case may be, Paying Agent, the Agent (on behalf of and at theexpense of the Issuers) shall give or cause to be given not more than 60 days'nor less than 30 days' notice thereof to the Noteholders in accordance with theTerms and Conditions. 22. Change of Specified Office -------------------------- If the Agent or any Paying Agent determines to change its specifiedoffice it shall give to the Issuers and (if applicable) the Agent written noticeof such determination giving the address of the new specified office which shallbe in the same city and stating the date on which such change is to take effect,which shall not be less than 45 days thereafter. The Agent (on behalf and at theexpense of the Issuers) shall within 15 days of receipt of such notice (unlessthe appointment of the Agent or the relevant Paying Agent, as the case may be,is to terminate pursuant to Clause 19 on or prior to the date of such change)give or cause to be given not more than 45 days' nor less than 30 days' noticethereof to the Noteholders in accordance with the Terms and Conditions. 23. Notices ------- All notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given whendeposited in the mail as first class mail, registered or certified, returnreceipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to any party hereto as follows: Address ------- The Corporation: Bank of America Corporation Bank of America Corporate Center 100 North Tryon Street NC1-007-23-01 Charlotte, North Carolina 28255-0065 Attn: John E. Mack Senior Vice President Telecopy: (704) 386-0270 with a copy to: Bank of America Corporation Bank of America Corporate Center 100 North Tryon Street Legal Department NC1-007-56-11 Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 Attn: Paul J. Polking, Esq. General Counsel Telecopy: (704) 370-3515 The Bank: Bank of America, N.A. Bank of America Corporate Center 100 North Tryon Street NC1-007-06-04 Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 Attn: James T. Houghton 17  Senior Vice President Telecopy: (704) 386-9946 The Agent: The Chase Manhattan Bank, London Branch Trinity Tower 9 Thomas More Street London E1 9YT United Kingdom Attn: Manager, Corporate Trust Operations Telecopy: 44-1202-347438 The Paying Agent: Chase Manhattan Bank Luxembourg S.A. 5 rue Plaetis L-2338 Luxembourg - Grund Attn: Manager, Corporate Trust Operations Telecopy: 352-462685-380or at any other address of which any of the foregoing shall have notified theothers in writing. (a) if delivered in person to the relevant address specified in the signature pages hereof and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered at the time of receipt; or (b) if sent by facsimile or telex to the relevant number specified on the signature pages hereof and, if so sent, shall be deemed to have been delivered immediately after transmission provided such transmission is confirmed by the answerback of the recipient (in the case of telex) or when an acknowledgment of receipt is received (in the case of facsimile). Where a communication is received after business hours it shall bedeemed to be received and become effective on the next business day. Everycommunication shall be irrevocable save in respect of any manifest errortherein. 24. Taxes and Stamp Duties ---------------------- The Issuers agree to pay any and all stamp and other documentary taxesor duties which may be payable in connection with the execution, delivery,performance and enforcement of this Agreement. 25. Commissions, Fees and Expenses ------------------------------ (1) The Issuers undertake to pay in respect of the services of theAgent and the Paying Agents under this Agreement such fees and expenses as maybe agreed between them from time to time, the initial such fees being set out ina letter of even date herewith from the Agent to, and countersigned by, theIssuers. (2) The Issuers will promptly pay on demand all out-of-pocketexpenses (including legal, advertising, facsimile, telex and postage expenses)properly incurred by the Agent and the Paying Agents in connection with theirservices hereunder, including, without limitation, the expenses contemplated inClause 24. 26. Indemnity --------- (1) The relevant Issuer (or Issuers, as the case may be) undertakesto indemnify and hold harmless each of the Agent and the Paying Agents againstall losses, liabilities, costs (including, without limitation, legal fees andexpenses), expenses, claims, actions or demands which the Agent or any PayingAgent, as the case may be, may reasonably incur or which may be made against theAgent or any Paying Agent, as a result of or in connection with the appointmentor the exercise of or performance of the powers, discretions, authorities andduties of the Agent or any Paying Agent under this Agreement except such as mayresult from its own gross negligence, bad faith or failure to comply with itsobligations hereunder or that of its officers, employees or agents. 18  (2) Each of the Agent and the Paying Agents shall severally indemnifyand hold harmless the relevant Issuer (or Issuers, as the case may be) againstany loss, liability, costs (including, without limitation, legal fees andexpenses), expense, claim, action or demand which it may reasonably incur orwhich may be made against it as a result of such Agent's or Paying Agent's ownnegligence, bad faith or material failure to comply with its obligations underthis Agreement or that of its officers, employees or agents. (3) If, under any applicable law and whether pursuant to a judgmentbeing made or registered or in the liquidation, insolvency or analogous processof any party hereto or for any other reason, any payment under or in connectionwith this Agreement is made or fails to be satisfied in a currency (the "OtherCurrency") other than that in which the relevant payment is expressed to be due(the "Required Currency") under this Agreement, then, to the extent that thepayment (when converted into the Required Currency at the rate of exchange onthe date of payment or, if it is not practicable for the payee to purchase theRequired Currency with the Other Currency on the date of payment, at the rate ofexchange as soon thereafter as it is practicable for it to do so or, in the caseof a liquidation, insolvency or analogous process, at the rate of exchange onthe latest date permitted by applicable law for the determination of liabilitiesin such liquidation, insolvency or analogous process) actually received by thepayee falls short of the amount due under the terms of this Agreement, the payorshall, as a separate and independent obligation, indemnify and hold harmless thepayee against the amount of such shortfall. For the purpose of this Clause 26,"rate of exchange" means the rate at which the payee is able on the relevantdate to purchase the Required Currency with the Other Currency and shall takeinto account any premium and other costs of exchange. 27. Reporting --------- (1) The Agent shall upon receipt of a written request therefor froman Issuer and after the payment of any further remuneration agreed between suchIssuers and the Agent (on behalf of such Issuers and on the basis of theinformation and documentation the Agent had in its possession) use allreasonable efforts to submit such reports or information as may be required fromtime to time by any applicable law, regulation or guideline promulgated by (i)any relevant United States governmental regulatory authority in respect of theissue and purchase of Notes or (ii) any other relevant governmental regulatoryauthority in respect of the issue and purchase of Notes denominated in theapplicable currency of such governmental regulatory authority. (2) The Agent will notify the MoF of such details relating to YenNotes and provide such other information about the Program to the MoF as may berequired. (3) The Agent will notify the German Bundesbank of such detailsrelating to DM-denominated Notes issued during the month in question and providesuch other information about the Program to the German Bundesbank as may berequired. (4) The Agent will notify the Bank of England of such detailsrelating to Sterling Notes and provide such other information about the Programto the Bank of England as may be required. 28. Governing Law ------------- (1) This Agreement, the Notes, and any Receipts, Coupons or Talonsappertaining thereto shall be governed by and construed in accordance with thelaws of the State of New York, United States of America, without regard toprinciples of conflicts of laws. (2) The Issuers and the Agent each hereby irrevocably submit to thenon-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States Federal court sitting in NewYork City, the Borough of Manhattan over any suit, action or proceeding arisingout of or related to this Agreement, any Note, Receipt, Coupon or Talon, as thecase may be (together, the "Proceedings"). The Issuers and the Agent eachirrevocably waive, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection whichit may have to the laying of the venue of the Proceedings brought in such acourt and any claim that the Proceedings have been brought in an inconvenientforum. The Issuers and the Agent each agree that final judgment in theProceedings brought in such a court shall be conclusive and binding upon theIssuers or the Agent, as the case may be, and may be enforced in any court ofthe jurisdiction to which the relevant Issuer (or Issuers, as the case may be)or the Agent is subject by a suit upon such judgment, provided that the -------- 19 service of process is effected upon such Issuers and the Agent in the mannerspecified in subsection (3) below or as otherwise permitted by law. (3) As long as any of the Notes, Receipts, Coupons or Talonsremains outstanding, the relevant Issuer shall at all times either maintain anoffice or have an authorized agent in New York City upon whom process may beserved in the Proceedings. Service of process upon either Issuer at its officesor upon such agent with written notice of such service mailed or delivered tothe relevant Issuer shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed inevery respect effective service of process upon such Issuer in the Proceedings.Each Issuer hereby appoints CT Corporation System located at 1633 Broadway, NewYork, New York 10019 as its agent for such purposes, and covenants and agreesthat service of process in the Proceedings may be made upon it at its office orat the specified offices of such agent (or such other addresses or at theoffices of any other authorized agents which the relevant Issuer may designateby written notice to the Agent) and prior to any termination of such agenciesfor any reason, it will so appoint a successor thereto as agent hereunder. 29. Amendments ---------- Without the consent of the Noteholders, Receiptholders orCouponholders, the Agent and the Issuers may agree to modifications of oramendments to this Agreement, the Notes, the Receipts or the Coupons for any ofthe following purposes: (i) to evidence the succession of another corporation to an Issuer and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of such Issuer in this Agreement, the Notes, Receipts or Coupons; (ii) to add to the covenants of an Issuer for the benefit of the Noteholders, the Receiptholders or the Couponholders, or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon such Issuer; (iii) to relax or eliminate the restrictions on payment of principal and interest in respect of the Notes, Receipts or Coupons in the United States, provided that such payment is permitted by United States tax laws and regulations then in effect and provided that no adverse tax consequences would result to the Noteholders, the Receiptholders or the Couponholders; (iv) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any defective provision herein or any provision which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein; (v) to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Notes, the Receipts, the Coupons or this Agreement, provided such action pursuant to this sub- clause (v) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Noteholders, the Receiptholders or the Couponholders; (vi) to authorize or facilitate the issuance of Notes in registered form; (vii) to facilitate the issuance of Notes in accordance with the laws of a particular country; and (viii) to permit further issuances of Notes in accordance with the terms of the Program Agreement. Any such modification or amendment shall be binding on theNoteholders, the Receiptholders and the Couponholders and any such modificationor amendment shall be notified to the Noteholders, the Receiptholders or theCouponholders in accordance with Condition 13 as soon as practicable thereafter. 30. Descriptive Headings -------------------- The descriptive headings in this Agreement are for convenience ofreference only and shall not define or limit the provisions hereof. 20  31. Counterparts ------------ This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all ofwhich shall constitute one and the same instrument. Any party may enter intothis Agreement by signing such a counterpart. 21  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement tobe executed in their respective corporate names by their respective officersthereunder duly authorized as of the date and year first above written. BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION as Issuer By /s/ ---------------------------------- Name: John E. Mack ------------------------------ Title: Senior Vice President ----------------------------- BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. as Issuer By /s/ ---------------------------------- Name: John E. Mack ------------------------------ Title: Senior Vice President ----------------------------- THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, LONDON BRANCH as Agent and Principal Paying Agent By /s/ ---------------------------------- Name: J. Pennell ------------------------------ Title: Assistant Treasurer ----------------------------- CHASE MANHATTAN BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A. as Paying Agent By /s/ ---------------------------------- Name: J. Pennell ------------------------------ Title: Assistant Treasurer ----------------------------- 22 ================================================================================ AMENDED AND RESTATED ISSUING AND PAYING AGENCY AGREEMENT between BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Issuer and BANKERS TRUST COMPANY, as Issuing and Paying Agent, Dated as of August 1, 2000 ___________________________ SHORT-TERM AND MEDIUM-TERM NOTES Due 7 Days or More From Date of Issue================================================================================  Table of Contents i  ii  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. SHORT-TERM AND MEDIUM-TERM NOTES AMENDED AND RESTATED ISSUING AND PAYING AGENCY AGREEMENT ----------------------------------- AMENDED AND RESTATED ISSUING AND PAYING AGENCY AGREEMENT dated as of August1, 2000 between BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association organizedunder the laws of the United States, as Issuer and as successor to NationsBank,N.A., and BANKERS TRUST COMPANY, a New York banking corporation, as Issuing andPaying Agent, amending and restating that certain Issuing and Paying AgencyAgreement dated as of May 19, 1998, between NationsBank, N.A., and Bankers TrustCompany as amended by an Amended and Restated Issuing and Paying AgencyAgreement dated as of July 30, 1999 between Bank of America, N.A. and BankersTrust Company and as further amended by Amendment To Short-Term and Medium-TermNotes Amended and Restated Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement dated as of May24, 2000 between Bank of America, N.A. and Bankers Trust Company. SECTION 1. Definitions. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or -----------in the applicable Note or unless the context otherwise requires: (1) the wordsand phrases with initial capitals used herein have the meanings specified inthis Section; and (2) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and otherwords of similar impact refer to this Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement as awhole and not to any particular section or other subdivision. Capitalized termsused herein but not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meaning andintention specified therefor in the applicable Note. Additional Responsibilities - Has the meaning given such term in Section28. Administrative Procedures - The Administrative Procedures applicable to theNotes, as set forth in Exhibit B hereto. Agent or Agents - Any of the Issuing and Paying Agent, any paying agent orthe Registrar, as the context indicates. Agreement - This Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement, including theexhibits hereto, as amended or supplemented from time to time. Amortizing Note - Any Note the terms of which provide for the payment ofPrincipal thereof and interest thereon on each Interest Payment Date and theStated Maturity thereof. Authorized Denomination - Has the meaning given such term in Section 3 (b) Authorized Representative - With respect to the Issuer, any duly authorizedrepresentative of the Issuer as set forth in Exhibit G hereto, and any otherrepresentative of the Issuer as to which the Issuer may hereafter certify inwriting to the Issuing and Paying Agent.  Business Day - Unless otherwise specified in a Pricing Supplement relatingto a particular Note, with respect to any Note issued by the Issuer, any daythat is not a Saturday or Sunday and that is not a day on which bankinginstitutions in The City of New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina (or,if the Issuing and Paying Agent is other than Bankers Trust Company, the city inwhich such successor Issuing and Paying Agent's principal office is located) aregenerally authorized or obligated by law to close. With respect to LIBOR Notes(as described herein), "Business Day" means London Business Day. If a particularNote is denominated in or indexed to a Specified Currency other than U.S.dollars, "Business Day" means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and thatis not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or Charlotte,North Carolina and the principal financial center of the country issuing theSpecified Currency are generally authorized or obligated by law or regulation toclose and is a day on which banking institutions in such principal financialcenter are carrying out transactions in such Specified Currency and, if suchNote is denominated in euros, is a day on which the Trans-European AutomatedReal-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open. Calculation Agent - With respect to Notes issued by the Issuer, such personappointed by the Issuer to calculate the interest rates applicable to FloatingRate Notes or certain other Notes, and for certain related matters, as morefully described in Section 2 (e). Certificate of Authentication - Has the meaning given such term in Section3 (e). Certificated Notes - Any Notes issued in fully registered, certificatedform. Components - Has the meaning given such term in Section 11(d). Depositary - With respect to Notes issued in the form of one or more GlobalNotes, the Person designated as Depositary by the Issuer thereof pursuanthereto, which Depositary at all times shall be a trust company validly existingand in good standing (at the time of its appointment) under the laws of theUnited States or any state thereof and shall be a clearing agency dulyregistered under the Securities Exchange Act. Distribution Agreement - The Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement,dated as of August 1, 2000, among the Issuer, Banc of America Securities LLC,Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Lehman Brothers Inc. (including itsaffiliate Lehman Commercial Paper Inc.), Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch,Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated andSalomon Smith Barney Inc., as amended and supplemented from time to time. DTC - The Depository Trust Company or its successors and assigns. Event of Default - Has the meaning given such term in Section 14. Extension Notice - The notice to be provided to Holders of Notes the StatedMaturity of which is extended by the Issuer as provided in Section 13(c) hereof. 4  Extension Period(s) - The period or periods, by which the Issuer may extendthe Stated Maturity of Notes which provide for such extension, as described morefully in Section 13(c) hereof. Final Maturity Date - The latest date designated on the face of a Notewhich provides for the maturity thereof. Fixed Rate Notes - Any Notes bearing interest at fixed rates andsubstantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto. Floating Rate Notes - Any Notes bearing interest at a variable rate orrates determined by reference to an interest rate formula, which may be adjustedby adding or subtracting a number of basis points or "spread" specified by theIssuer on the related Floating Rate Note as being applicable to such FloatingRate Note and/or by multiplying a percentage or "spread multiplier" specified bythe Issuer thereof on the related Floating Rate Note as being applicable to suchFloating Rate Note and substantially in the form of Exhibit D. Global Note - A Note, in the form provided by Section 3(a), issued to theDepositary or its nominee, and registered in the Register in the name of theDepositary or its nominee. Holder - Means the person in whose name a Note is registered in theRegister. Indexed Notes- Any Notes pursuant to which the amount of principal,premium, if any, or interest payable is to be determined with reference to oneor more specified commodities, loans, stocks, debt obligations or othersecurities, or credit events, or any combination or basket of the foregoing, orthe exchange rate of one or more specified currencies (including compositecurrencies), or another index, formula or other method and substantially in theform of Exhibit E. Initial Maturity Date - Has the meaning given such term in Section 13(d). Initial Redemption Date - With respect to a Note that is subject to anOptional Redemption, the date specified as the Initial Redemption Date on suchNote and after which, but prior to the Stated Maturity, an Optional Redemptionof such Note may occur as specified in such Note. Initial Renewal Date - Has the meaning given such term in Section 13(d). Interest Payment Date - A date for payment of interest on a Note, asprovided in the Note. Issuer - Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, and itssuccessors and assigns is referred to herein as the "Issuer". Issuing and Paying Agent - Bankers Trust Company, or any successor Issuingand Paying Agent appointed in accordance with this Agreement under Section 20that has accepted such appointment hereunder. 5  Letters of Representations - The letters from the Issuing and Paying Agentand Bank, as appropriate, to be furnished to DTC in accordance with Section 2(a)hereof, substantially in the forms set forth in Exhibit A hereto. London Business Day - Any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollarsare transacted in the London inter-bank market. New Maturity Date - Has the meaning given such term in Section 13(d). Note or Notes - Any of the Issuer's Short-Term Notes or Medium-Term Notesissued, authenticated and delivered under this Agreement. Offering Circular - The Offering Circular of the Issuer relating to theNotes dated August 1, 2000 as the same may be amended or supplemented from timeto time. Officer's Certificate - With respect to the Issuer, a certificate (i)signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or any Executive VicePresident or Senior Vice President of the Issuer or such other persons as theIssuer designates in an Officer's Certificate signed by the President or anyVice President, and (ii) delivered to the Issuing and Paying Agent. Optional Redemption - A redemption of a Note on or after the datedesignated on such Note as the Initial Redemption Date at the option of theIssuer as set forth in such Note at a Redemption Price as set forth in suchNote. Original Issue Date - As to any Note, the date on which such Note wasissued and the purchase price therefore was paid by the related Holder, exceptthat with respect to a Reopened Note, the Original Issue Date for all portionsof such Note shall be the date on which the first portion of such Note wasissued and the purchase price therefore was paid by the related Holder. Original Issue Discount Note - Any Note issued at an issue pricerepresenting more than a de minimis discount from the principal amount payableat its Stated Maturity for federal income tax purposes. Original Stated Maturity - Has the meaning given such term in Section13(c). Outstanding - For purposes of the provisions of this Agreement and theNotes, any Note authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall, asof any date of determination, be deemed to be "Outstanding," except: (i) Notestheretofore canceled or delivered to the Issuing and Paying Agent forcancellation; (ii) Notes that have become due and payable on their PrincipalPayment Date and with respect to which monies sufficient to pay the Principal orRedemption Price thereof, as the case may be, and interest thereon shall havebeen made available to the Issuing and Paying Agent; or (iii) Notes in lieu ofor in substitution for which other Notes shall have been authenticated anddelivered pursuant to this Agreement. 6
