>Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading ActivitiesThe following discussion presents net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities.Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our non-trading balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing and maturity characteristics. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.Table 58&#32;presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2015 and 2014.Table 59&#32;shows the pretax dollar impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2015 and 2014, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented to ensure that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment. For more information on net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities, see page 31.During 2015, the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet increased due to higher deposit balances and lower long-end interest rates. We continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that benefit coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive &nbsp;impacts to net interest income. For more information on the transition provisions of Basel 3, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital&#32;on page 54.The sensitivity analysis in Table 59&#32;assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.The behavior of our deposit portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in Table 59&#32;assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher-yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce the Corporation's benefit in those scenarios.Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative ContractsInterest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2015&#32;reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.Table 60&#32;presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and economic hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-&nbsp;average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2015 and 2014. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs.We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were $1.7 billion&#32;and $2.7 billion, on a pretax basis, at December 31, 2015 and 2014. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December&#160;31, 2015, the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: $563 million, or 33 percent within the next year, 37 percent in years two through five, and 20 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining 10 percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December&#160;31, 2015.Mortgage Banking Risk ManagementWe originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be HFI or held-for-sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Fluctuations in interest rates drive consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity, which in turn affects total origination and servicing income. Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires complex modeling and ongoing monitoring. Typically, an increase in mortgage interest rates will lead to a decrease in mortgage originations and related fees. IRLCs and the related residential first mortgage LHFS are subject to interest rate risk between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market, as an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to a decrease in the value of these instruments.MSRs are nonfinancial assets created when the underlying mortgage loan is sold to investors and we retain the right to service the loan. Typically, an increase in mortgage rates will lead to an increase in the value of the MSRs driven by lower prepayment expectations. This increase in value from increases in mortgage rates is opposite of, and therefore offsets, the risk described for IRLCs and LHFS. Because the interest rate risks of these two hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio.Interest rate and certain market risks of IRLCs and residential mortgage LHFS are economically hedged in combination with MSRs. To hedge these combined assets, we use certain derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward sale commitments, eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures, &nbsp;and mortgage TBAs, as well as other securities including agency MBS, principal-only and interest-only MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. During 2015&#32;and 2014, we recorded gains in mortgage banking income of $360 million and $357 million related to the change in fair value of the derivative contracts and other securities used to hedge the market risks of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses due to changes in fair value of these hedged items. For more information on MSRs, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for more information on mortgage banking income, see Consumer Banking&#32;on page 33.Compliance Risk ManagementCompliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and related self-regulatory organizations' standards and codes of conduct (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations). Global Compliance independently assesses compliance risk, and evaluates FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying compliance issues and risks, performing monitoring and independent testing, and reporting on the state of compliance activities across the Corporation. Additionally, Global Compliance works with FLUs and control functions so that day-to-day activities operate in a compliant manner. For more information on FLUs and control functions, see Managing Risk&#32;on page 49.The Corporation's approach to the management of compliance risk is described in the Global Compliance &#8211; Enterprise Policy, which outlines the requirements of the Corporation's global compliance program, and defines roles and responsibilities related to the implementation, execution and management of the compliance program by Global Compliance. The requirements work together to drive a comprehensive risk-based approach for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance risks throughout the Corporation.The Global Compliance &#8211; Enterprise Policy sets the requirements for reporting compliance risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees with an outline for conducting objective independent oversight of the Corporation's compliance risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and ERC.Operational Risk ManagementThe Corporation defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including third-party business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk includes legal risk. Successful operational risk management is particularly important to diversified financial services companies because of the nature, volume and complexity of the financial services business. Operational risk is a significant component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital calculation under the Advanced approaches. For more information on Basel 3 Advanced approaches, see Capital Management &#8211; Advanced Approaches&#32;on page 55. We approach operational risk management from two perspectives within the structure of the Corporation: (1) at the enterprise level to provide independent, integrated management of operational risk across the organization, and (2) at the business and control function levels to address operational risk in revenue producing and non-revenue producing units. The Operational Risk Management Program addresses the overarching processes for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling operational risk, and reporting operational risk information to management and the Board. A sound internal governance structure enhances the effectiveness of the Corporation's Operational Risk Management Program and is accomplished at the enterprise level through formal oversight by the Board, the ERC, the CRO and a variety of management committees and risk oversight groups aligned to the Corporation's overall risk governance framework and practices. Of these, the MRC oversees the Corporation's policies and processes for sound operational risk management. The MRC also serves as an escalation point for critical operational risk matters within the Corporation. The MRC reports operational risk activities to the ERC. The independent operational risk management teams oversee the businesses and control functions to monitor adherence to the Operational Risk Management Program and advise and challenge operational risk exposures.Within the Global Risk Management organization, the Enterprise Operational Risk team develops and guides the strategies, enterprise-wide policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for assessing and managing operational risks across the organization. The Enterprise Operational Risk team reports results to businesses, control functions, senior management, management committees, the ERC and the Board.The businesses and control functions are responsible for assessing, monitoring and managing all the risks within their units, including operational risks. In addition to enterprise risk management tools such as loss reporting, scenario analysis and RCSAs, operational risk executives, working in conjunction with senior business executives, have developed key tools to help identify, measure, monitor and control risk in each business and control function. Examples of these include personnel management practices; data management, data quality controls and related processes; fraud management units; cybersecurity controls, processes and systems; transaction processing, monitoring and analysis; business recovery planning; and new product introduction processes. The business and control functions are also responsible for consistently implementing and monitoring adherence to corporate practices.Business and control function management uses the enterprise RCSA process to capture the identification and assessment of operational risk exposures and evaluate the status of risk and control issues including risk mitigation plans, as appropriate. The goals of this process are to assess changing market and business conditions, evaluate key risks impacting each business and control function, and assess the controls in place to mitigate the risks. Key operational risk indicators have been developed and are used to assist in identifying trends and issues on an enterprise, business and control function level. Independent review and challenge to the Corporation's overall operational risk management framework is performed by the Corporate Operational Risk Program Adherence Team and reported through the operational risk governance committees and management routines.Where appropriate, insurance policies are purchased to mitigate the impact of operational losses. These insurance &nbsp;policies are explicitly incorporated in the structural features of operational risk evaluation. As insurance recoveries, especially given recent market events, are subject to legal and financial uncertainty, the inclusion of these insurance policies is subject to reductions in their expected mitigating benefits.Reputational Risk ManagementReputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation's conduct or business practices will adversely affect its profitability or operations through an inability to establish new or maintain existing customer/client relationships. Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation's activities, including those related to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks.The Corporation manages reputational risk through established policies and controls in its businesses and risk management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputational risk events. The Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputational risks. The Corporation's organization and governance structure provides oversight of reputational risks, and key risk indicators are reported regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such committees' oversight includes providing approval for business activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks. Complex Accounting EstimatesOur significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments.The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.Allowance for Credit LossesThe allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation's loan portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate our allowance at the portfolio segment level and our portfolio segments are Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. Due to the variability in the drivers of the assumptions used in this process, estimates of the portfolio's inherent risks and overall collectability change with changes in the economy, individual industries, countries, and borrowers' ability and willingness to repay their obligations. The degree to which any particular assumption affects the allowance for credit losses depends on the severity of the change and its relationship to the other assumptions.Key judgments used in determining the allowance for credit losses include risk ratings for pools of commercial loans and leases, market and collateral values and discount rates for individually evaluated loans, product type classifications for consumer and commercial loans and leases, loss rates used for consumer and commercial loans and leases, adjustments made to address current events and conditions (e.g., the recent sharp drop in oil prices), considerations regarding domestic and global economic uncertainty, and overall credit conditions.Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Consumer Real Estate and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;would have increased by $71 million. PCI loans within our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment are initially recorded at fair value. Applicable accounting guidance prohibits carry-over or creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting. However, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition result in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to the allowance for loan and lease losses. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows could result in a $151 million impairment of the portfolio. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;would have increased by $38 million.Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal &nbsp;risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already risk-rated Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased by $3.2 billion at December&#160;31, 2015.The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December&#160;31, 2015&#32;was 1.37 percent&#32;and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.75 percent.These sensitivity analyses do not represent management's expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.For more information on the FASB's proposed standard on accounting for credit losses, see Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Mortgage Servicing RightsMSRs are nonfinancial assets that are created when a mortgage loan is sold and we retain the right to service the loan. We account for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value primarily recorded in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.We determine the fair value of our consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates key economic assumptions including estimates of prepayment rates and resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs, and the option-adjusted spread levels. These variables can, and generally do, change from quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. These assumptions are subjective in nature and changes in these assumptions could materially affect our operating results. For example, increasing the prepayment rate assumption used in the valuation of our consumer MSRs by 10 percent while keeping all other assumptions unchanged could have resulted in an estimated decrease of $163 million&#32;in both MSRs and mortgage banking income for 2015. This impact does not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk.We manage potential changes in the fair value of MSRs through a comprehensive risk management program. The intent is to mitigate the effects of changes in the fair value of MSRs through the use of risk management instruments. To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value primarily recognized in mortgage banking income. For additional information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management&#32;on page 99.For more information on MSRs, including the sensitivity of weighted-average lives and the fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Fair Value of Financial InstrumentsWe classify the fair values of financial instruments&#32;based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.&#32;Applicable accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. We carry trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities, consumer MSRs and certain other assets at fair value. Also, we account for certain loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt under the fair value option.The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review &nbsp;and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. Similarly, broker quotes that are executable are given a higher level of reliance than indicative broker quotes, which are not executable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For additional information, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;and Note 21 &#8211; Fair Value Option&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2014, we implemented an FVA into valuation estimates primarily to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where we are not permitted to use the collateral received. This change resulted in a pretax net FVA charge of $497 million&#32;at the time of implementation. Significant judgment is required in modeling expected exposure profiles and in discounting for the funding risk premium inherent in these derivatives.Level 3 Assets and LiabilitiesFinancial assets and liabilities where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting guidance. The Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include certain loans, MBS, ABS, CDOs, CLOs and structured liabilities, highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts and consumer MSRs. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information on the significant transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2015&#32;and 2014, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax AssetsAccrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100&#32;jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance,&#32;in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies, may be material to our operating results for any given period.Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more-likely-than-not to be realized.While we have established valuation allowances for certain state and non-U.S. deferred tax assets, we have concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary with respect to nearly all U.S. federal and U.K. deferred tax assets, including NOL and tax credit carryforwards. The majority of U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management's conclusion is supported by financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. However, significant changes to our estimates, such as changes that would be caused by substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe's capital markets, or to applicable tax laws, such as laws affecting the realizability of NOLs or other deferred tax assets, &nbsp;could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. See Note 19 &#8211; Income Taxes&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page 14&#32;under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Goodwill and Intangible AssetsBackgroundThe nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;and Note 8 &#8211; Goodwill and Intangible Assets&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which for the Corporation is as of June 30, and in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below. As reporting units are determined after an acquisition or evolve with changes in business strategy, goodwill is assigned to reporting units and it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition. All of the revenue streams and related activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organic, are available to support the value of the goodwill.Effective January 1, 2015, the Corporation changed its basis of presentation related to its business segments. The realignment triggered a test for goodwill impairment, which was performed both immediately before and after the realignment. In performing the goodwill impairment test, the Corporation compared the fair value of the affected reporting units with their carrying value as measured by allocated equity. The fair value of the affected reporting units exceeded their carrying value and, accordingly, no goodwill impairment resulted from the realignment.2015&#32;Annual Impairment TestEstimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. We determined the fair values of the reporting units using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach and also utilized independent valuation specialists.The market approach we used estimates the fair value of the individual reporting units by incorporating any combination of the tangible capital, book capital and earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to the reporting unit. The relative weight assigned to these multiples varies among the reporting units based on qualitative and quantitative characteristics, primarily the size and relative profitability of the reporting unit as compared to the comparable publicly-traded companies. Since the fair values determined under the market approach are representative of a noncontrolling interest, we added a control premium to arrive at the reporting units' estimated fair values on a controlling basis.For purposes of the income approach, we calculated discounted cash flows by taking the net present value of estimated future cash flows and an appropriate terminal value. Our discounted cash flow analysis employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount rate (i.e., cost of equity financing) for each reporting unit. The inputs to this model include the risk-free rate of return, beta, which is a measure of the level of non-diversifiable risk associated with comparable companies for each specific reporting unit, market equity risk premium and in certain cases an unsystematic (company-specific) risk factor. The unsystematic risk factor is the input that specifically addresses uncertainty related to our projections of earnings and growth, including the uncertainty related to loss expectations. We utilized discount rates that we believe adequately reflect the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in our internally developed forecasts. We estimated expected rates of equity returns based on historical market returns and risk/return rates for industries similar to each reporting unit. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and actual results may differ from forecasted results.We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2015&#32;for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. In performing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as measured by allocated equity, which includes goodwill. We also evaluated the U.K. Card business within All Other, as the U.K. Card business comprises substantially all of the goodwill included in All Other. To determine fair value, we utilized a combination of the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, we compared earnings and equity multiples of the individual reporting units to multiples of public companies comparable to the individual reporting units. The control premium used in the June&#160;30, 2015&#32;annual goodwill impairment test was 30 percent, based upon observed comparable premiums paid for change in control transactions for financial institutions, for all reporting units. The discount rates used in the June&#160;30, 2015&#32;annual goodwill impairment test ranged from 10.2 percent to 13.7 percent depending on the relative risk of a reporting unit. Growth rates developed by management for individual revenue and expense items in each reporting unit ranged from negative 3.5 percent to positive 8.0 percent. The Corporation's market capitalization remained below our recorded book value during 2015. As none of our reporting units are publicly-traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations may not directly correlate to the Corporation's market capitalization. We considered the comparison of the aggregate fair value of the reporting units with assigned goodwill to the Corporation's market capitalization as of June 30, 2015. Although we believe it is reasonable to conclude that market capitalization could be an indicator of fair value over time, we do not believe that our current market capitalization would reflect the aggregate fair value of our individual reporting units with assigned goodwill, as reporting units with no assigned goodwill have not been valued and are excluded (e.g., LAS) from the comparison and our market capitalization does not include consideration of individual reporting unit control premiums. Although the individual reporting units have considered the impact of recent regulatory changes in their forecasts and valuations, overall regulatory and market uncertainties persist that we believe further impact the Corporation's stock price. Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment.&nbsp;2014&#32;Annual Impairment TestWe completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2014&#32;for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. We also evaluated the U.K. Card business within All Other, as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in All Other. Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment. Representations and Warranties LiabilityThe methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the type of representations and warranties provided in the sales contract and considers a variety of factors. Depending upon the counterparty, these factors include actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices, other economic conditions, estimated probability that we will receive a repurchase request, number of payments made by the borrower prior to default and estimated probability that we will be required to repurchase a loan. It also considers other relevant facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements and identity of the counterparty or type of counterparty, as appropriate. The estimate of the liability for obligations under representations and warranties is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors, including those set forth above, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of our liability.The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined based on the level and type of repurchase requests presented, defects identified, the latest experience gained on repurchase requests and other relevant facts and circumstances. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of 10 percent&#32;in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $300 million&#32;in the representations and warranties liability as of December&#160;31, 2015. These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity.For more information on representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations &#8211; Representations and Warranties&#32;on page 46, as well as Note 7 &#8211; Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees&#32;and Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Litigation ReserveFor a limited number of the matters disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, we are able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, the estimated range of possible loss represents what we believe to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation's maximum loss exposure. Information is provided in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies.Consolidation and Accounting for Variable Interest EntitiesIn accordance with applicable accounting guidance, an entity that has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE) is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE.Determining whether an entity has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires significant judgment. An entity must assess the purpose and design of the VIE, including explicit and implicit contractual arrangements, and the entity's involvement in both the design of the VIE and its ongoing activities. The entity must then determine which activities have the most significant impact on the economic performance of the VIE and whether the entity has the power to direct such activities. For VIEs that hold financial assets, the party that services the assets or makes investment management decisions may have the power to direct the most significant activities of a VIE. Alternatively, a third party that has the unilateral right to replace the servicer or investment manager or to liquidate the VIE may be deemed to be the party with power. If there are no significant ongoing activities, the party that was responsible for the design of the VIE may be deemed to &nbsp;have power. If the entity determines that it has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE, then the entity must determine if it has either an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Such economic interests may include investments in debt or equity instruments issued by the VIE, liquidity commitments, and explicit and implicit guarantees.On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether we have acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether we have acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which we are involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements.2014 Compared to 2013The following discussion and analysis provide a comparison of our results of operations for 2014&#32;and 2013. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Tables 8&#32;and 9&#32;contain financial data to supplement this discussion.OverviewNet IncomeNet income was $4.8 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to $11.4 billion&#32;in 2013. Including preferred stock dividends, net income applicable to common shareholders was $3.8 billion, or $0.36&#32;per diluted share in 2014&#32;and $10.1 billion, or $0.90&#32;per diluted share in 2013.Net Interest IncomeNet interest income on an FTE basis decreased $2.3 billion&#32;to $40.8 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to 2013. The net interest yield on an FTE basis decreased 12 bps to 2.25 percent&#32;in 2014. These declines were primarily due to the acceleration of market-related premium amortization on debt securities as the decline in long-term interest rates shortened the expected lives of the securities. Also contributing to these declines were lower loan yields and consumer loan balances, lower net interest income from the ALM portfolio and a decrease in trading-related net interest income. Market-related premium amortization was an expense of $1.2 billion in 2014&#32;compared to a benefit of $784 million in 2013. Partially offsetting these declines were reductions in funding yields, lower long-term debt balances and commercial loan growth. Noninterest IncomeNoninterest income was $44.3 billion&#32;in 2014, a decrease of $2.4 billion&#32;compared to 2013.Provision for Credit LossesThe provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion&#32;in 2014, a decrease&#32;of $1.3 billion&#32;compared to 2013. The provision for credit losses was $2.1 billion&#32;lower than net charge-offs for 2014, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. The decrease&#32;in the provision from 2013&#32;was driven by portfolio improvement, including increased home prices in the consumer real estate portfolio and lower unemployment levels driving improvement in the credit card portfolios, as well as improved asset quality in the commercial portfolio. Partially offsetting this decline was $400 million of additional costs in 2014&#32;associated with the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement.Net charge-offs totaled $4.4 billion, or 0.49&#32;percent of average loans and leases in 2014&#32;compared to $7.9 billion, or 0.87 percent in 2013. The decrease in net charge-offs was due to credit quality improvement across all major portfolios and the impact of increased recoveries primarily from nonperforming and delinquent loan sales.Noninterest ExpenseNoninterest expense was $75.1 billion&#32;in 2014, an increase of $5.9 billion&#32;compared to 2013. The increase was primarily driven by higher litigation expense. Litigation expense increased $10.3 billion primarily as a result of charges related to the settlements with the DoJ and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The increase in litigation expense was partially offset by a decrease of $3.2 billion in default-related staffing and other default-related servicing expenses in LAS.Income Tax ExpenseThe income tax expense was $2.0 billion&#32;on pretax income of $6.9 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to income tax expense of $4.7 billion&#32;in 2013. The effective tax rate for 2014&#32;was 29.5 percent&#32;and was driven by our recurring tax preference items, the resolution of several tax examinations and tax benefits from non-U.S. &nbsp;restructurings, partially offset by the non-deductible treatment of certain litigation charges.The effective tax rate for 2013&#32;was 29.3 percent&#32;and was driven by our recurring tax preference items and by certain tax benefits related to non-U.S. operations, partially offset by the $1.1 billion&#32;negative impact from the U.K. 2013 Finance Act, enacted in July 2013, which reduced the U.K. corporate income tax rate by three percent. The $1.1 billion&#32;charge resulted from remeasuring our U.K. net deferred tax assets, in the period of enactment, using the lower rates.Business Segment OperationsConsumer BankingConsumer Banking&#32;recorded net income of $6.4 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to $6.3 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;with the increase primarily driven by lower noninterest expense and provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower revenue. Net interest income decreased $442 million&#32;to $20.2 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;due to lower average card loan balances and yields, partially offset by the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposit balances. Noninterest income decreased $681 million&#32;to $10.6 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily due to lower mortgage banking income and lower revenue from consumer protection products, partially offset by portfolio divestiture gains, and higher service charges and card income. The provision for credit losses decreased $486 million&#32;to $2.7 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily as a result of improvements in credit quality. Noninterest expense decreased $1.0 billion&#32;to $17.9 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily driven by lower personnel, operating, litigation and FDIC expenses.Global Wealth & Investment ManagementGWIM&#32;recorded net income of $3.0 billion&#32;in both 2014&#32;and 2013&#32;as an increase in noninterest income and lower credit costs were offset by lower net interest income and higher noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased $228 million&#32;to $5.8 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;as a result of the low rate environment, partially offset by the impact of loan growth. Noninterest income, primarily investment and brokerage services, increased $842 million&#32;to $12.6 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;driven by increased asset management fees due to the impact of long-term AUM flows and higher market levels, partially offset by lower transactional revenue. Noninterest expense increased $615 million&#32;to $13.7 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily due to higher revenue-related incentive compensation and support expenses, partially offset by lower other expenses.Global BankingGlobal Banking&#32;recorded net income of $5.8 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to $5.2 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;with the increase primarily driven by a reduction in the provision for credit losses and, to a lesser degree, an increase in revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Revenue increased $171 million&#32;to $17.6 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily from higher net interest income. The provision for credit losses decreased $820 million&#32;to $322 million&#32;in 2014&#32;driven by improved credit quality, and 2013&#32;included increased reserves from loan growth. Noninterest expense increased $119 million&#32;to $8.2 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily from additional client-facing personnel expense and higher litigation expense.Global MarketsGlobal Markets&#32;recorded net income of $2.7 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to $1.1 billion&#32;in 2013. In 2014, we implemented an FVA into valuation estimates resulting in an initial charge of $497 million. Excluding net DVA/FVA and charges in 2013&#32;related to the U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction, net income decreased $135 million to $2.9 billion in 2014&#32;primarily driven by lower trading account profits and net interest income, partially offset by a decrease in noninterest expense, a $240 million gain in 2014&#32;related to the IPO of an equity investment and higher investment and brokerage services income. Net DVA/FVA losses were $240 million&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to losses of $1.2 billion&#32;in 2013. Noninterest expense decreased $232 million&#32;to $11.9 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;due to lower litigation expense and revenue-related incentives, partially offset by higher technology costs and investments in infrastructure.Legacy Assets & ServicingLAS recorded a net loss of $13.1 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to a net loss of $4.9 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;with the increase in the net loss primarily driven by significantly higher litigation expense, which is included in noninterest expense, as a result of the settlements with the DoJ and FHFA, a lower tax benefit rate resulting from the non-deductible treatment of a portion of the DoJ Settlement, lower mortgage banking income and higher provision for credit losses. &nbsp;Mortgage banking income decreased $1.6 billion to $1.0 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;primarily due to lower servicing income, partially offset by a lower representations and warranties provision. The provision for credit losses increased $410 million&#32;to $127 million&#32;in 2014&#32;driven by additional costs associated with the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. Noninterest expense increased $8.2 billion&#32;to $20.6 billion&#32;in 2014&#32;due to an $11.4 billion increase in litigation expense, partially offset by a decline in default-related servicing expenses, including mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays.All OtherAll Other&#32;recorded net income of $64 million&#32;in 2014&#32;compared to $717 million&#32;in 2013&#32;with the decrease due to the negative impact on net interest income of market-related premium amortization expense on debt securities of $1.2 billion in 2014&#32;compared to a benefit of $784 million in 2013, a decrease of $2.0 billion in equity investment income and a $363 million increase in U.K. PPI costs. Partially offsetting these decreases were gains related to the sales of residential mortgage loans, a $313 million&#32;improvement in the provision (benefit) for credit losses and a decrease of $1.8 billion&#32;in noninterest expense. The decrease in noninterest expense was primarily due to a decline in litigation expense. Also, the income tax benefit increased $547 million.For footnotes see page 112.n/m = not meaningfulFor footnotes see page 118.For footnotes see page&#160;120.GlossaryAlt-A Mortgage &#8211; A type of U.S. mortgage that, for various reasons, is considered riskier than A-paper, or &#8220;prime,&#8221; and less risky than &#8220;subprime,&#8221; the riskiest category. Alt-A interest rates, which are determined by credit risk, therefore tend to be between those of prime and subprime consumer real estate loans. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores and higher LTVs.Assets in Custody &#8211; Consist largely of custodial and non-discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets administered for clients. Trust assets encompass a broad range of asset types including real estate, private company ownership interest, personal property and investments.Assets Under Management (AUM)&#32;&#8211; The total market value of assets under the investment advisory and/or discretion of GWIM&#32;which generate asset management fees based on a percentage of the assets' market values. AUM reflects assets that are generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate accounts. AUM is classified in two categories, Liquidity AUM and Long-term AUM. Liquidity AUM are assets under advisory and discretion of GWIM&#32;in which the investment strategy seeks current income, while maintaining liquidity and capital preservation. The duration of these strategies is primarily less than one year. Long-term AUM are assets under advisory and/or discretion of GWIM&#32;in which the duration of investment strategy is longer than one year.Carrying Value (with respect to loans)&#32;&#8211; The amount at which a loan is recorded on the balance sheet. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For PCI loans, the carrying value equals fair value upon acquisition adjusted for subsequent cash collections and yield accreted to date. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held-for-sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For loans for which we have elected the fair value option, the carrying value is fair value.Client Brokerage Assets&#32;&#8211; Include client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. This includes non-discretionary brokerage and fee-based assets which generate brokerage income and asset management fee revenue.Committed Credit Exposure&#32;&#8211; Includes any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed conditions.Credit Derivatives &#8211; Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one or more referenced &nbsp;obligations. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection purchaser and the protection seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events generally include bankruptcy or insolvency of the referenced credit entity, failure to meet payment obligations when due, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. The purchaser of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of such a credit event. A credit default swap is a type of a credit derivative.Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments. Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the Corporation's own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments and/or structured liabilities.Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)&#32;&#8211; Commitment with a loan applicant in which the loan terms, including interest rate and price, are guaranteed for a designated period of time subject to credit approval.Letter of Credit&#32;&#8211; A document issued on behalf of a customer to a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the issuer's credit for that of the customer. Loan-to-value (LTV)&#32;&#8211; A commonly used credit quality metric that is reported in terms of ending and average LTV. Ending LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan at the end of the period divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. An additional metric related to LTV is combined loan-to-value (CLTV)&#32;which is similar to the LTV metric, yet combines the outstanding balance on the residential mortgage loan and the outstanding carrying value on the home equity loan or available line of credit, both of which are secured by the same property, divided by the estimated value of the property. A LTV of 100 percent reflects a loan that is currently secured by a property valued at an amount exactly equal to the carrying value or available line of the loan. Estimated property values are generally determined through the use of automated valuation models (AVMs) or the CoreLogic Case-Shiller Index. An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to large volumes of market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the MSA in which the property being valued is located. CoreLogic Case-Shiller is a widely used index based on data from repeat sales of single family homes. CoreLogic Case-Shiller indexed-based values are reported on a three-month or one-quarter lag.Margin Receivable&#32;&#8211;&#32;An extension of credit secured by eligible securities in certain brokerage accounts.Market-related Adjustments&#32;&#8211; Include adjustments to premium amortization or discount accretion on debt securities when a decrease in long-term rates shortens (or an increase extends) the estimated lives of mortgage-related debt securities. Also included in market-related adjustments is hedge ineffectiveness that impacts net interest income.Matched Book&#32;&#8211; Repurchase and resale agreements and securities borrowed and loaned transactions entered into to accommodate customers and earn interest rate spreads.Mortgage Servicing Right (MSR) &#8211; The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors.Net Interest Yield&#32;&#8211; Net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets.Nonperforming Loans and Leases&#32;&#8211; Include loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties (TDRs). Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. Consumer credit card loans, business card loans, consumer loans secured by personal property (except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR), and consumer loans secured by real estate that are insured by the FHA or through long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (fully-insured loan portfolio) are not placed on nonaccrual status and are, therefore, not reported as nonperforming loans and leases.Prompt Corrective Action (PCA)&#32;&#8211; A framework established by the U.S. banking regulators requiring banks to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital ratios, comprised of five categories of capitalization: &#8220;well capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;adequately capitalized,&#8221; &#8220;undercapitalized,&#8221; &#8220;significantly undercapitalized,&#8221; and &#8220;critically undercapitalized.&#8221; Insured depository institutions that fail to meet these capital levels are subject to increasingly strict limits on their activities, including their ability to make capital distributions, pay management compensation, grow assets and take other actions. Purchased Credit-impaired (PCI) Loan&#32;&#8211; A loan purchased as an individual loan, in a portfolio of loans or in a business combination &nbsp;with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable, upon acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments. These loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition.Subprime Loans&#32;&#8211; Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors, such as low FICO scores, high debt to income ratios and inferior payment history.Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)&#32;&#8211; Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, loans discharged in bankruptcy or other actions intended to maximize collection. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge from bankruptcy. TDRs are generally reported as nonperforming loans and leases while on nonaccrual status. Nonperforming TDRs may be returned to accrual status when, among other criteria, payment in full of all amounts due under the restructured terms is expected and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months. TDRs that are on accrual status are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the restructuring occurred or the year in which they are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they would be placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs.Value-at-Risk (VaR)&#32;&#8211; VaR is a model that simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios. Acronyms&#32;&nbsp;Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#32;See Market Risk Management&#32;on page 92&#32;in the MD&A and the sections referenced therein for Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Corporation's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;&nbsp;based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013). Based on that assessment, management concluded that, as of December&#160;31, 2015, the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting is effective.The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2015&#32;has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2015.Brian T. MoynihanChairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentPaul M. DonofrioChief Financial OfficerReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Bank of America Corporation:In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December&#160;31, 2015&#32;in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013)&#32;issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing &nbsp;and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)&#160;pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Charlotte, North CarolinaFebruary&#160;24, 2016Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesNotes to Consolidated Financial StatementsNOTE&#160;1&#160;Summary of Significant Accounting PrinciplesBank of America Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Corporation), a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company, provides a diverse range of financial services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain international markets. The term &#8220;the Corporation&#8221; as used herein may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation's subsidiaries or affiliates.Principles of Consolidation and Basis of PresentationThe Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries, and those variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Results of operations of acquired companies are included from the dates of acquisition and for VIEs, from the dates that the Corporation became the primary beneficiary. Assets held in an agency or fiduciary capacity are not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation accounts for investments in companies for which it owns a voting interest and for which it has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financing decisions using the equity method of accounting. These investments are included in other assets. Equity method investments are subject to impairment testing and the Corporation's proportionate share of income or loss is included in equity investment income.The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Realized results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.New Accounting PronouncementsIn January 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. The new guidance makes targeted changes to existing GAAP including, among other provisions, requiring certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings and requiring changes in instrument-specific credit risk (i.e., debit valuation adjustments (DVA)) for financial liabilities recorded at fair value under the fair value option to be reported in other comprehensive income (OCI). The accounting for DVA related to other financial liabilities, for example, derivatives, does not change. The new guidance is effective on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted for the provisions related to DVA. The Corporation early adopted, retrospective to January 1, 2015, the provisions of this new accounting guidance related to DVA on financial liabilities accounted for under the fair value option. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify, as of January 1, 2015, unrealized DVA losses of $1.2 billion&#32;after tax ($2.0 billion&#32;pretax) from January 1, 2015 retained earnings to accumulated OCI. Further, pretax unrealized DVA gains of $301 million, $301 million&#32;and $420 million&#32;were reclassified from other income to accumulated OCI for the three months ended September 30, 2015, &nbsp;June 30, 2015 and March 31, 2015, respectively. This had the effect of reducing net income as previously reported for the aforementioned quarters by $187 million, $186 million&#32;and $260 million, or approximately $0.02&#32;per share in each quarter. This change is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income and the Global Markets&#32;segment results. Financial statements for 2014 and 2013 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of this new accounting guidance. For additional information, see Note 14 &#8211; Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)&#32;and Note 21 &#8211; Fair Value Option. The Corporation does not expect the provisions of this new accounting guidance other than those related to DVA, as described above, to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.In February 2015, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that amends the criteria for determining whether limited partnerships and similar entities are VIEs, clarifies when a general partner or asset manager should consolidate an entity and eliminates the indefinite deferral of certain aspects of VIE accounting guidance for investments in certain investment funds. Money market funds registered under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act and similar funds are exempt from consolidation under the new guidance. The new accounting guidance is effective on January 1, 2016. The Corporation does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. The new accounting guidance, which does not apply to financial instruments, is effective on January 1, 2018. The Corporation does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. It would replace multiple existing impairment models, including an &#8220;incurred loss&#8221; model for loans, with an &#8220;expected loss&#8221; model. The FASB has indicated a tentative effective date of January 1, 2019, and final guidance is expected to be issued in the second quarter of 2016. The final standard may materially reduce retained earnings in the period of adoption.Cash and Cash EquivalentsCash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in the process of collection, cash segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations, and amounts due from correspondent banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and certain non-U.S. central banks.Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsIn the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2014 as included herein, the Corporation made certain corrections related to non-cash activity which are not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole, do not impact the Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Balance Sheet, and have no impact on the Corporation's cash and cash equivalents balance. Certain non-cash transactions involving the sale of loans and receipt of debt securities as proceeds were&#160;incorrectly classified between operating activities and investing activities. The corrections resulted in a $3.4 billion&#32;increase in net cash provided by operating activities, offset by a $3.4 billion&#32;increase in net cash used in investing activities when compared to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the Form 10-K for the year ended December&#160;31, 2014.The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows included in the previously-filed Form 10-Qs for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015 also incorrectly reported this type of non-cash activity by $4.8 billion&#32;and $9.3 billion, where an increase in net cash provided by operating activities was offset by an increase in net cash used in investing activities. The incorrectly reported amounts in these 2015 quarterly periods also were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole, did not impact the Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated Balance Sheets and had no impact on cash and cash equivalents for those periods. For information on certain non-cash transactions, which are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, see Note 4 &#8211; Outstanding Loans and Leases&#32;and Note 6 &#8211; Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities. Securities Financing AgreementsThe Corporation enters into securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (securities financing agreements) to accommodate customers (also referred to as &#8220;matched-book transactions&#8221;), obtain securities to cover short positions, and to finance inventory positions. Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized financing transactions except in instances where the transaction is required to be accounted for as individual sale and purchase transactions. Generally, these agreements are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest, except for certain securities financing agreements that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of securities financing agreements that are accounted for under the fair value option are recorded in trading account profits in the Consolidated Statement of Income.The Corporation's policy is to obtain possession of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned under resale agreements. To ensure that the market value of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is generally valued daily and the Corporation may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or may return collateral pledged when appropriate. Securities financing agreements give rise to negligible credit risk as a result of these collateral provisions and, accordingly, no allowance for loan losses is considered necessary.In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the securities received, and a liability, representing the obligation to return those securities.&nbsp;CollateralThe Corporation accepts securities as collateral that it is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of this collateral was $458.9 billion&#32;and $508.7 billion, of which $383.5 billion&#32;and $419.3 billion&#32;was sold or repledged. The primary source of this collateral is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell. The Corporation also pledges company-owned securities and loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and short-term borrowings. This collateral, which in some cases can be sold or repledged by the counterparties to the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as collateral for the interests issued by the VIEs. These assets are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of Consolidated VIEs.In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection with its derivative contracts. Required collateral levels vary depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty. Generally, the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based on provisions contained in master netting agreements, the Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own derivative positions which can be applied against derivative liabilities.Trading InstrumentsFinancial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at fair value. Fair value is generally based on quoted market prices or quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities. If these market prices are not available, fair values are estimated based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation. Realized gains and losses are recorded on a trade-date basis. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in trading account profits.Derivatives and Hedging ActivitiesDerivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk management activities include derivatives that are both designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and derivatives used to hedge market risks in relationships that are not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships (referred to as other risk management activities). Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include swaps, financial futures and forward settlement contracts, and option contracts.All derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Corporation to settle positive and negative positions and offset cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis. For exchange-traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets or is derived from observable market- based pricing parameters, similar to those applied to over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. For non-exchange traded contracts, fair value is based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation.Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values also take into account the Corporation's own credit standing.Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management ActivitiesDerivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with changes in fair value included in trading account profits.Derivatives used for other risk management activities are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives used in other risk management activities have not been designated in a qualifying accounting hedge relationship because they did not qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to an item that is reported at fair value through earnings so that the effect of measuring the derivative instrument and the asset or liability to which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the Consolidated Statement of Income to the extent effective. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate certain risks associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and first mortgage loans held-for-sale (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation are recorded in mortgage banking income. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are included in other income (loss). Credit derivatives are also used by the Corporation to mitigate the risk associated with various credit exposures. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are included in other income (loss).Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes (Accounting Hedges)For accounting hedges, the Corporation formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various accounting hedges. Additionally, the Corporation primarily uses regression analysis at the inception of a hedge and for each reporting period thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in an accounting hedge transaction is expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item or forecasted transaction. The Corporation discontinues hedge accounting when it is determined that a derivative is not expected to be or has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes in fair value of the derivative in earnings after termination of the hedge relationship.&nbsp;The Corporation uses its accounting hedges as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The Corporation manages interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity predominantly through the use of derivatives. Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the fair value of the Corporation's assets and liabilities that are attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, together and in the same income statement line item with changes in the fair value of the related hedged item. If a derivative instrument in a fair value hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability are subsequently accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying value of that asset or liability. For interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, such adjustments are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the respective asset or liability.Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the variability in cash flows of assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions caused by interest rate or foreign exchange fluctuations. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated OCI and are reclassified into the line item in the income statement in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the hedged item affects earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on the component of a derivative excluded in assessing hedge effectiveness are recorded in the same income statement line item. The Corporation records changes in the fair value of derivatives used as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations, to the extent effective, as a component of accumulated OCI. If a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is terminated or the hedge designation is removed, related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. If it becomes probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, any related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in that period.Interest Rate Lock CommitmentsThe Corporation enters into IRLCs in connection with its mortgage banking activities to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. IRLCs that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be classified as held-for-sale are considered derivative instruments under applicable accounting guidance. As such, these IRLCs are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income, typically resulting in recognition of a gain when the Corporation enters into IRLCs.In estimating the fair value of an IRLC, the Corporation assigns a probability that the loan commitment will be exercised and the loan will be funded. The fair value of the commitments is derived from the fair value of related mortgage loans which is based on observable market data and includes the expected net future cash flows related to servicing of the loans. Changes in the fair value of IRLCs are recognized based on interest rate changes, changes in the probability that the commitment will be exercised and the passage of time. Changes from the expected future cash flows related to the customer relationship are excluded from the valuation of IRLCs.Outstanding IRLCs expose the Corporation to the risk that the price of the loans underlying the commitments might decline from inception of the rate lock to funding of the loan. To manage this risk, the Corporation utilizes forward loan sales commitments and other derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and options, to economically hedge the risk of potential changes in the value of the loans that would result from the commitments. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income.SecuritiesDebt securities are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of their trade date. Debt securities bought principally with the intent to buy and sell in the short term as part of the Corporation's trading activities are reported at fair value in trading account assets with unrealized gains and losses included in trading account profits. Debt securities purchased for longer term investment purposes, as part of asset and liability management (ALM) and other strategic activities are generally reported at fair value as available-for-sale (AFS) securities with net unrealized gains and losses net-of-tax included in accumulated OCI. Certain other debt securities purchased for ALM and other strategic purposes are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (loss). These are referred to as other debt securities carried at fair value. AFS securities and other debt securities carried at fair value are reported in debt securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Corporation may hedge these other debt securities with risk management derivatives with the unrealized gains and losses also reported in other income (loss). The debt securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (loss) to mitigate accounting asymmetry with the risk management derivatives and to achieve operational simplifications. Debt securities which management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at amortized cost. Certain debt securities purchased for use in other risk management activities, such as hedging certain market risks related to MSRs, are reported in other assets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in the same line item as the item being hedged.The Corporation regularly evaluates each AFS and held-to-maturity (HTM) debt security where the value has declined below amortized cost to assess whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, the Corporation considers the severity and duration of the decline in fair value, the length of time expected for recovery, the financial condition of the issuer, and other qualitative factors, as well as whether the Corporation either plans to sell the security or it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost. If the impairment of the AFS or HTM debt security is credit-related, an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) loss is recorded in earnings. For AFS debt securities, the non-credit related impairment loss is recognized in accumulated OCI. If the Corporation intends to sell an AFS debt security or believes it will more-likely-than-not be required to sell a security, the Corporation records the full amount of the impairment loss as an OTTI loss.Interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in interest income. Premiums and discounts are amortized to interest income over the estimated lives of the securities. Prepayment experience, which is primarily driven by interest rates, is continually evaluated &nbsp;to determine the estimated lives of the securities. When a change is made to the estimated lives of the securities, the related premium or discount is adjusted, with a corresponding charge or credit to interest income, to the appropriate amount had the current estimated lives been applied since the acquisition of the securities. Realized gains and losses from the sales of debt securities are determined using the specific identification method.Marketable equity securities are classified based on management's intention on the date of purchase and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the trade date. Marketable equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of resale in the near term are classified as trading and are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in trading account profits. Other marketable equity securities are accounted for as AFS and classified in other assets. All AFS marketable equity securities are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. If there is an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of any individual AFS marketable equity security, the cost basis is reduced and the Corporation reclassifies the associated net unrealized loss out of accumulated OCI with a corresponding charge to equity investment income. Dividend income on AFS marketable equity securities is included in equity investment income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of all AFS marketable equity securities, which are recorded in equity investment income, are determined using the specific identification method.Certain equity investments held by Global Principal Investments, the Corporation's diversified equity investor in private equity, real estate and other alternative investments, are subject to investment company accounting under applicable accounting guidance and, accordingly, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in equity investment income. These investments are included in other assets. Initially, the transaction price of the investment is generally considered to be the best indicator of fair value. Thereafter, valuation of direct investments is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly-traded comparables derived by multiplying a key performance metric of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition comparables, entry level multiples and discounted cash flow analyses, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. For fund investments, the Corporation generally records the fair value of its proportionate interest in the fund's capital as reported by the respective fund managers.Loans and LeasesLoans, with the exception of loans accounted for under the fair value option, are measured at historical cost and reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized premiums or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct origination costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned income, discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income using a level yield methodology. The Corporation elects to account for certain consumer and commercial loans under the fair value option with changes in fair value reported in other income (loss).Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting purposes, the loan and lease portfolio is categorized by portfolio segment and, within each portfolio segment, by class of financing receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses, and a class of financing receivables is defined as the level of disaggregation of portfolio segments based on the initial measurement attribute, risk characteristics and methods for assessing risk. The Corporation's three&#32;portfolio segments are Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. The classes within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment are core portfolio residential mortgage, Legacy Assets & Servicing residential mortgage, core portfolio home equity and Legacy Assets & Servicing home equity.&#32;The classes within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment are U.S. credit card, non-U.S. credit card, direct/indirect consumer and other consumer. The classes within the Commercial portfolio segment are U.S. commercial, commercial real estate, commercial lease financing, non-U.S. commercial and U.S. small business commercial.Purchased Credit-impaired LoansPurchased loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date for which it is probable that the Corporation will not receive all contractually required payments receivable are accounted for as purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans. Evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination may include past due status, refreshed credit scores and refreshed loan-to-value (LTV) ratios. At acquisition, PCI loans are recorded at fair value with no allowance for credit losses, and accounted for individually or aggregated in pools based on similar risk characteristics such as credit risk, collateral type and interest rate risk. The Corporation estimates the amount and timing of expected cash flows for each loan or pool of loans. The expected cash flows in excess of the amount paid for the loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recorded as interest income over the remaining estimated life of the loan or pool of loans. The excess of the PCI loans' contractual principal and interest over the expected cash flows is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Over the life of the PCI loans, the expected cash flows continue to be estimated using models that incorporate management's estimate of current assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds. If, upon subsequent valuation, the Corporation determines it is probable that the present value of the expected cash flows has decreased, a charge to the provision for credit losses is recorded with a corresponding increase in the allowance for credit losses. If it is probable that there is a significant increase in the present value of expected cash flows, the allowance for credit losses is reduced or, if there is no remaining allowance for credit losses related to these PCI loans, the accretable yield is increased through a reclassification from nonaccretable difference, resulting in a prospective increase in interest income. Reclassifications to or from nonaccretable difference can also occur for changes in the PCI loans' estimated lives. If a loan within a PCI pool is sold, foreclosed, forgiven or the expectation of any future proceeds is remote, the loan is removed from the pool at its proportional carrying value. If the loan's recovery value is less than the loan's carrying value, the difference is first applied against &nbsp;the PCI pool's nonaccretable difference and then against the allowance for credit losses.LeasesThe Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments receivable plus estimated residual value of the leased property less unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of financing leases, are reported net of non-recourse debt. Unearned income on leveraged and direct financing leases is accreted to interest income over the lease terms using methods that approximate the interest method.Allowance for Credit LossesThe allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation's lending activities. The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments exclude amounts for loans and unfunded lending commitments accounted for under the fair value option as the fair values of these instruments reflect a credit component. The allowance for loan and lease losses does not include amounts related to accrued interest receivable, other than billed interest and fees on credit card receivables, as accrued interest receivable is reversed when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. The allowance for loan and lease losses represents the estimated probable credit losses on funded consumer and commercial loans and leases while the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, including standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and binding unfunded loan commitments, represents estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit instruments based on utilization assumptions. Lending-related credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible, excluding loans carried at fair value, are charged off against these accounts. Write-offs on PCI loans on which there is a valuation allowance are recorded against the valuation allowance. For additional information, see Purchased Credit-impaired Loans in this Note. Cash recovered on previously charged-off amounts is recorded as a recovery to these accounts. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses based on the combined total of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.The Corporation performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its lending portfolios to identify credit risks and to assess the overall collectability of those portfolios. The allowance on certain homogeneous consumer loan portfolios, which generally consist of consumer real estate within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment and credit card loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment, is based on aggregated portfolio segment evaluations generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized for these portfolios which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, bankruptcies, economic conditions and credit scores.The Corporation's Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment is comprised primarily of large groups of homogeneous consumer loans secured by residential real estate. The amount of losses incurred in the homogeneous loan pools is estimated based on the number of loans that will default and the loss in the event of default. Using modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates the number of homogeneous loans that will default based on the individual loan attributes aggregated into pools of homogeneous loans with similar attributes. The attributes that are most significant to the probability of default and are used to estimate defaults include refreshed LTV or, in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed combined LTV, borrower credit score, months since origination (referred to as vintage) and geography, all of which are further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). This estimate is based on the Corporation's historical experience with the loan portfolio. The estimate is adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental factors not yet reflected in the historical data underlying the loss estimates, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory environment. The probability of default on a loan is based on an analysis of the movement of loans with the measured attributes from either current or any of the delinquency categories to default over a 12-month period. On home equity loans where the Corporation holds only a second-lien position and foreclosure is not the best alternative, the loss severity is estimated at 100 percent.The allowance on certain commercial loans (except business card and certain small business loans) is calculated using loss rates delineated by risk rating and product type. Factors considered when assessing loss rates include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry of the obligor, and the obligor's liquidity and other financial indicators along with certain qualitative factors. These statistical models are updated regularly for changes in economic and business conditions. Included in the analysis of consumer and commercial loan portfolios are reserves which are maintained to cover uncertainties that affect the Corporation's estimate of probable losses including domestic and global economic uncertainty and large single-name defaults.The remaining portfolios, including nonperforming commercial loans, as well as consumer and commercial loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR), are reviewed in accordance with applicable accounting guidance on impaired loans and TDRs. If necessary, a specific allowance is established for these loans if they are deemed to be impaired. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and/or interest, in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement, or the loan has been modified in a TDR. Once a loan has been identified as impaired, management measures impairment primarily based on the present value of payments expected to be received, discounted at the loans' original effective contractual interest rates, or discounted at the portfolio average contractual annual percentage rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Impaired loans and TDRs may also be measured based on observable market prices, or for loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. If the recorded investment in impaired loans exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is established as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses unless these are secured consumer loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, &nbsp;in which case the amount that exceeds the fair value of the collateral is charged off.Generally, when determining the fair value of the collateral securing consumer real estate-secured loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, prior to performing a detailed property valuation including a walk-through of a property, the Corporation initially estimates the fair value of the collateral securing these consumer loans using an automated valuation model (AVM). An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the Metropolitan Statistical Area in which the property being valued is located. In the event that an AVM value is not available, the Corporation utilizes publicized indices or if these methods provide less reliable valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals or broker price opinions to estimate the fair value of the collateral. While there is inherent imprecision in these valuations, the Corporation believes that they are representative of the portfolio in the aggregate.In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, the Corporation also estimates probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments, such as letters of credit and financial guarantees, and binding unfunded loan commitments. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments excludes commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to individual reviews and are analyzed and segregated by risk according to the Corporation's internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in conjunction with an analysis of historical loss experience, utilization assumptions, current economic conditions, performance trends within the portfolio and any other pertinent information, result in the estimation of the reserve for unfunded lending commitments.The allowance for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio is reported separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheet whereas the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The provision for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio and unfunded lending commitments is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and DelinquenciesNonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming.In accordance with the Corporation's policies, consumer real estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming at 90&#32;days past due unless repayment of the loan is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or through individually insured long-term standby agreements with Fannie Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured portfolio are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming. Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming when the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes 90&#32;days past due even if the junior-lien loan is current. Accrued interest receivable is reversed when a consumer loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing consumer loans for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are generally applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to interest income when received. These loans may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. The outstanding balance of real estate-secured loans that is in excess of the estimated property value less costs to sell is charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180&#32;days past due unless the loan is fully insured. The estimated property value less costs to sell is determined using the same process as described for impaired loans in Allowance for Credit Losses in this Note.Consumer loans secured by personal property, credit card loans and other unsecured consumer loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans, except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR. Personal property-secured loans are charged off to collateral value no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 120&#32;days past due or, for loans in bankruptcy, 60&#32;days past due. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 180&#32;days past due or within 60&#32;days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy.Commercial loans and leases, excluding business card loans, that are past due 90&#32;days or more as to principal or interest, or where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection, including loans that are individually identified as being impaired, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of collection.Accrued interest receivable is reversed when commercial loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing commercial loans and leases for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to income when received. Commercial loans and leases may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. Business card loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 180&#32;days past due or 60&#32;days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy. These loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans. Other commercial loans and leases are generally charged off when all or a portion of the principal amount is determined to be uncollectible.The entire balance of a consumer loan or commercial loan or lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the specified due date on the customer's billing statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due loans and leases until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual status, if applicable.PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. Although the PCI loans may be contractually delinquent, the Corporation does not classify these loans as nonperforming as the loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date and the accretable yield is recognized in interest income over the &nbsp;remaining life of the loan. In addition, reported net charge-offs exclude write-offs on PCI loans as the fair value already considers the estimated credit losses.Troubled Debt RestructuringsConsumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions designed to maximize collections. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans. Loans that are carried at fair value, LHFS and PCI loans are not classified as TDRs.Consumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been modified in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring may remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated performance prior to the restructuring and payment in full under the restructured terms is expected. Otherwise, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming, except for fully-insured consumer real estate loans, until there is sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period, generally six&#32;months. If accruing TDRs cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, they are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. Generally, TDRs are reported as performing or nonperforming TDRs, depending on nonaccrual status, throughout their remaining lives. Accruing TDRs that bear a market rate of interest are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the loans are returned to accrual status.Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Such loans are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the estimated collateral value less costs to sell no later than at the time of discharge. If these loans are contractually current, interest collections are generally recorded in interest income on a cash basis. Consumer real estate-secured loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated in a TDR are not placed on nonaccrual status. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated and placed on a fixed payment plan after July 1, 2012 are generally charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes 120&#32;days past due.A loan that had previously been modified in a TDR and is subsequently refinanced under current underwriting standards at a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR.Loans Held-for-saleLoans that are intended to be sold in the foreseeable future, including residential mortgages, loan syndications, and to a lesser degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and other loans, are reported as LHFS and are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value. The Corporation accounts for certain LHFS, including residential mortgage LHFS, under the fair value option. Loan origination costs related to LHFS that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. Loan origination costs for LHFS carried at the lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the loans and recognized as a reduction of noninterest income upon the sale of such loans. LHFS that are on nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as defined in the policy herein, are reported separately from nonperforming loans and leases.Premises and EquipmentPremises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range up to 40&#32;years for buildings, up to 12&#32;years for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold improvements.Internally-developed SoftwareThe Corporation capitalizes the costs associated with certain internally-developed software, and amortizes the costs over the expected useful life. Direct project costs of internally-developed software are capitalized when it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for its intended function.Mortgage Servicing RightsThe Corporation accounts for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income. To reduce the volatility of earnings related to interest rate and market value fluctuations, U.S. Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities and derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs. Such derivatives are not designated as qualifying accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income. The Corporation estimates the fair value of consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income and, when available, quoted prices from independent parties. Goodwill and Intangible AssetsGoodwill is the purchase premium after adjusting for the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit, as defined under applicable accounting guidance, is a business segment or one level below a business segment. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured by allocated equity. In certain circumstances, the first step may be performed using a qualitative assessment. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step must be performed to measure potential impairment.The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated possible impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill &nbsp;recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step, over the aggregate fair values of the assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Measurement of the fair values of the assets and liabilities of a reporting unit is consistent with the requirements of the fair value measurements accounting guidance, as described in Fair Value in this Note. The adjustments to measure the assets, liabilities and intangibles at fair value are for the purpose of measuring the implied fair value of goodwill and such adjustments are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit, there is no impairment. If the goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. An impairment loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill and subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under applicable accounting guidance.For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. The carrying value of the intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortization. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value.Variable Interest EntitiesA VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity through their equity investments. The entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis, the Corporation reassesses whether it has a controlling financial interest in and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether the Corporation has acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether the Corporation has acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which the Corporation is involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements.The Corporation primarily uses VIEs for its securitization activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt securities into a trust or other vehicle such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation. Assets held in a trust can only be used to settle obligations of the trust. The creditors of these trusts typically have no recourse to the Corporation except in accordance with the Corporation's obligations under standard representations and warranties.When the Corporation is the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust, including non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, automobile loans and student loans, the Corporation has the power to direct the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation generally does not have the power to direct the most significant activities of a residential mortgage agency trust except in certain circumstances in which the Corporation holds substantially all of the issued securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the trust. The power to direct the most significant activities of a commercial mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate securities which embody certain controlling rights. The Corporation consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it has the power to direct the most significant activities and also holds securities issued by the trust or has other contractual arrangements, other than standard representations and warranties, that could potentially be significant to the trust.The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts. The Corporation consolidates a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of the trust such as the remarketing of the trust's liabilities or, if there are no ongoing activities, sole discretion over the design of the trust, including the identification of securities to be transferred in and the structure of securities to be issued, and also retains securities or has liquidity or other commitments that could potentially be significant to the trust. The Corporation does not consolidate a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if one or a limited number of third-party investors share responsibility for the design of the trust or have control over the significant activities of the trust through liquidation or other substantive rights.Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), investment vehicles created on behalf of customers and other investment vehicles. The Corporation does not routinely serve as collateral manager for CDOs and, therefore, does not typically have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of a CDO. However, following an event of default, if the Corporation is a majority holder of senior securities issued by a CDO and acquires the power to manage the assets of the CDO, the Corporation consolidates the CDO.The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle, derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation does not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor controlled the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicles or if the Corporation does not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the vehicle.Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded at fair value. In addition, the Corporation may invest in debt securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these debt securities, which are classified as trading account assets, debt securities carried at fair value or held-to-maturity securities, are based primarily on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets. Generally, quoted market prices for retained residual interests are not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates &nbsp;fair values based on the present value of the associated expected future cash flows. This may require management to estimate credit losses, prepayment speeds, forward interest yield curves, discount rates and other factors that impact the value of retained interests. Retained residual interests in unconsolidated securitization trusts are classified in trading account assets or other assets with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The Corporation may also enter into derivatives with unconsolidated VIEs, which are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings.Fair ValueThe Corporation measures the fair values of its assets and liabilities, where applicable, in accordance with accounting guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price. A three-level hierarchy, provided in the applicable accounting guidance, for inputs is utilized in measuring fair value which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used to determine the exit price when available. Under applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation categorizes its financial instruments, based on the priority of inputs to the valuation technique, into this three-level hierarchy, as described below. Trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, consumer MSRs and certain other assets are carried at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The Corporation has also elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option, including certain commercial and consumer loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, long-term deposits and long-term debt. The following describes the three-level hierarchy.pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. This category generally includes retained residual interests in securitizations, consumer MSRs, certain ABS, highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS, IRLCs and certain CDOs where independent pricing information cannot be obtained for a significant portion of the underlying assets.Income TaxesThere are two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax attributes such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts management concludes are more-likely-than-not to be realized.Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based upon a two-step model: first, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in order to be recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as the largest dollar amount of that position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the benefit recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit. The Corporation records income tax-related interest and penalties, if applicable, within income tax expense.Accumulated Other Comprehensive IncomeThe Corporation records the following in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax: unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities, unrealized gains or losses on DVA on financial liabilities recorded at fair value under the fair value option, gains and losses on cash flow accounting hedges, certain employee benefit plan adjustments, and foreign currency translation adjustments and related hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities are reclassified to earnings as the gains or losses are realized upon sale of the securities. Unrealized losses on AFS securities deemed to represent OTTI are reclassified to earnings at the time of the impairment charge. For AFS debt securities that the Corporation does not intend to sell or it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell, only the credit component of an unrealized loss is reclassified to earnings. Realized gains or losses on DVA are reclassified to earnings upon derecognition of the liability. Gains or losses on derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges are reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Translation gains &nbsp;or losses on foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to earnings upon the substantial sale or liquidation of investments in foreign operations. Revenue RecognitionThe following summarizes the Corporation's revenue recognition policies as they relate to certain noninterest income line items in the Consolidated Statement of Income.Card income includes fees such as interchange, cash advance, annual, late, over-limit and other miscellaneous fees, which are recorded as revenue when earned. Uncollected fees are included in the customer card receivables balances with an amount recorded in the allowance for loan and lease losses for estimated uncollectible card receivables. Uncollected fees are written off when a card receivable reaches 180&#32;days past due.Service charges include fees for insufficient funds, overdrafts and other banking services and are recorded as revenue when earned. Uncollected fees are included in outstanding loan balances with an amount recorded for estimated uncollectible service fees receivable. Uncollected fees are written off when a fee receivable reaches 60&#32;days past due.Investment and brokerage services revenue consists primarily of asset management fees and brokerage income that are recognized over the period the services are provided or when commissions are earned. Asset management fees consist primarily of fees for investment management and trust services and are generally based on the dollar amount of the assets being managed. Brokerage income generally includes commissions and fees earned on the sale of various financial products.Investment banking income consists primarily of advisory and underwriting fees that are recognized in income as the services are provided and no contingencies exist. Revenues are generally recognized net of any direct expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses are recorded as noninterest expense.Earnings Per Common ShareEarnings per common share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders by the weighted-average common shares outstanding, except that it does not include unvested common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders represents net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders which is net income (loss) adjusted for preferred stock dividends including dividends declared, accretion of discounts on preferred stock including accelerated accretion when preferred stock is repaid early, and cumulative dividends related to the current dividend period that have not been declared as of period end, less income allocated to participating securities (see below for more information). Diluted EPS is computed by dividing income (loss) allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can be tendered to exercise warrants, by the weighted-average common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock, restricted stock units, outstanding warrants and the dilution resulting from the conversion of convertible preferred stock, if applicable.Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities that are included in computing EPS using the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula under which EPS is calculated for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participating rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings, distributed and undistributed, are allocated to participating securities and common shares based on their respective rights to receive dividends.In an exchange of non-convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is adjusted for the difference between the carrying value of the preferred stock and the fair value of the consideration exchanged. In an induced conversion of convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is reduced by the excess of the fair value of the consideration exchanged over the fair value of the common stock that would have been issued under the original conversion terms.Foreign Currency TranslationAssets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each entity. For certain of the foreign operations, the functional currency is the local currency, in which case the assets, liabilities and operations are translated, for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to the U.S. Dollar reporting currency at period-end rates for assets and liabilities and generally at average rates for results of operations. The resulting unrealized gains or losses, as well as gains and losses from certain hedges, are reported as a component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When the foreign entity's functional currency is determined to be the U.S. Dollar, the &nbsp;resulting remeasurement gains or losses on foreign currency-denominated assets or liabilities are included in earnings.Credit Card and Deposit ArrangementsEndorsing Organization AgreementsThe Corporation contracts with other organizations to obtain their endorsement of the Corporation's loan and deposit products. This endorsement may provide to the Corporation exclusive rights to market to the organization's members or to customers on behalf of the Corporation. These organizations endorse the Corporation's loan and deposit products and provide the Corporation with their mailing lists and marketing activities. These agreements generally have terms that range five or more years. The Corporation typically pays royalties in exchange for the endorsement. Compensation costs related to the credit card agreements are recorded as contra-revenue in card income.Cardholder Reward AgreementsThe Corporation offers reward programs that allow its cardholders to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards including cash, travel and gift cards. The Corporation establishes a rewards liability based upon the points earned that are expected to be redeemed and the average cost per point redeemed. The points to be redeemed are estimated based on past redemption behavior, card product type, account transaction activity and other historical card performance. The liability is reduced as the points are redeemed. The estimated cost of the rewards programs is recorded as contra-revenue in card income.<hr 
