 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1996 -- Commission File Number 1-6523 NATIONSBANK CORPORATION (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONEIndicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports requiredto be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during thepreceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements forthe past 90 days. Yes X NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to thebest of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statementsincorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or in any amendment tothis Form 10-K. [ ]Aggregate market value of shares of voting stock held by all persons, other thanshares beneficially owned by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates (asdefined in SEC Rule 405), is approximately $41,994,576,000 computed by referenceto the closing price of Common Stock of $58.00 per share on March 20, 1997, onthe New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions List, as reported inpublished financial sources, a stated price of $42.50 per share of the ESOPConvertible Preferred Stock, Series C, and the stated value of $100 per share ofthe 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B.Of the registrant's only class of Common Stock, there were 741,505,154 sharesoutstanding as of March 7, 1997. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  PART IITEM 1. BUSINESSGENERAL The registrant is a North Carolina corporation and a multi-bank holdingcompany registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the"Act"), with its principal assets being the stock of its subsidiaries. Throughits banking subsidiaries (the "Banks") and its various non-banking subsidiaries,the registrant provides banking and banking-related services, primarilythroughout the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, Southeast and Southwest. The principalexecutive offices of the registrant are located at NationsBank Corporate Centerin Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. On February 27, 1997, the registrant completed a two-for-one split of itscommon stock (the "Split"). All financial data included in this Annual Report onForm 10-K has been restated to reflect the Split.ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS On January 9, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Bank SouthCorporation ("BKSO"). As of the acquisition date, BKSO had assets ofapproximately $7.4 billion and deposits of approximately $5.1 billion. Theregistrant issued 0.88 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share ofBKSO common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 53 millionshares of the registrant's common stock (adjusted for the Split). On January 10, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of CSFHoldings, Inc. ("CSF"). As of the acquisition date, CSF had assets ofapproximately $4.8 billion and deposits of approximately $3.8 billion. Thepurchase price was approximately $516 million and was paid in cash. On January 31, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Sun World,N.A. ("Sun World"). As of the acquisition date, Sun World had assets ofapproximately $136 million and deposits of approximately $123 million. Thepurchase price was approximately $16 million and was paid in cash. On April 29, 1996, the registrant, through NationsCredit CommercialCorporation, its wholly owned, indirect subsidiary engaged primarily in thecommercial financial services business, completed the acquisition of LDICorporation ("LDI"). As of the acquisition date, LDI had assets of approximately$247 million. The purchase price was approximately $28 million and was paid incash. On May 24, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of CharterBancshares, Inc. ("CBI"). As of the acquisition date, CBI had assets ofapproximately $928 million and deposits of approximately $720 million. Theregistrant issued 0.77 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share ofCBI common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 2.8 millionshares of the registrant's common stock (adjusted for the Split). Prior to thisacquisition, the registrant owned approximately 42% of CBI. On August 13, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of TACBancshares, Inc. ("TAC") and its subsidiary, Chase Federal Bank FSB ("ChaseFederal"). As of the acquisition date, TAC and Chase Federal had total assetsand total deposits of $2.8 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. The purchaseprice was approximately $280 million, in the aggregate, and was paid in cash. On August 31, 1996, the registrant acquired aggregate deposits ofapproximately $970 million from Bluebonnet Savings Bank, FSB. The purchase pricewas approximately $46 million and was paid in cash. In connection with the divestiture of its affinity loan business, onSeptember 27, 1996, the registrant, through one of its banking subsidiaries,NationsBank, N.A., sold approximately $393 million in loan account receivablesto Household Bank, f.s.b. and approximately $728 million in loan accountreceivables to MBNA America Bank, N.A. The sales prices for these transactionswere approximately $433 million and $784 million, respectively, and werereceived in cash. On January 7, 1997, the registrant completed the acquisition of Boatmen'sBancshares, Inc. ("BBI"). As of the acquisition date, BBI had assets ofapproximately $41.2 billion and deposits of approximately $32.0 billion. In theacquisition, each outstanding share of BBI common stock was converted into 1.305shares of the registrant's common stock (adjusted for the Split) or, at theshareholder's election, $63.11 in cash, for an aggregate 1  purchase price of approximately 195 million shares of the registrant's commonstock (adjusted for the Split) and $371 million in cash. The registrant currently intends to consummate the acquisition of FirstFederal Savings Bank of Brunswick, Georgia ("Brunswick") in the second quarterof 1997. As of December 31, 1996, Brunswick had assets of approximately $254million and deposits of approximately $220 million. The registrant expects toissue approximately 2.4 million shares of its common stock in the acquisition(adjusted for the Split). As part of its operations, the registrant regularly evaluates the potentialacquisition of, and holds discussions with, various financial institutions andother businesses of a type eligible for bank holding company ownership orcontrol. In addition, the registrant regularly analyzes the values of, andsubmits bids for, the acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilitiesand assets of such financial institutions and other businesses. As a generalrule, the registrant publicly announces such material acquisitions when adefinitive agreement has been reached.OPERATIONS The registrant provides a diversified range of banking and certainnonbanking financial services and products through its various subsidiaries. Theregistrant manages its business activities through three major business units:the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services. The General Bank provides comprehensive services in the retail andcommercial banking fields, including the origination and servicing of homemortgage loans, the issuance and servicing of credit cards (through a Delawaresubsidiary), indirect lending, dealer finance and certain insurance services.The General Bank also provides full service and discount brokerage services andinvestment advisory services, including advising the Nations Funds family ofmutual funds, as well as banking, fiduciary and investment management servicesthrough subsidiaries of the registrant. The registrant has announced its intentto sell its line of business that provides retirement services for definedbenefit and defined contribution plans. As of January 7, 1997, the General Bankoperated approximately 2,600 banking offices in the states of Arkansas, Florida,Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Mexico, NorthCarolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia and theDistrict of Columbia. The General Bank also provides fully automated 24-hourcash dispensing and depositing services throughout the states in which it islocated, through over 5,000 automated teller machines. Global Finance provides comprehensive corporate and investment bankingservices to domestic and international customers. Global Finance serves as aprincipal lender and investor, as well as an advisor, and manages treasury andtrade transactions for clients and customers. Loan origination and syndication,asset-backed lending, leasing, factoring, project finance and mergers andacquisitions are representative of the services provided. These services areprovided through various domestic offices as well as offices located in London,Singapore, Bogota, Mexico City, Grand Cayman, Nassau, Seoul, Tokyo, Osaka,Mumbai (formerly Bombay), Jakarta, Taipei, Sao Paulo, Frankfurt and Hong Kong.Global Finance also underwrites, distributes and makes markets in high-grade andhigh-yield securities, is a primary dealer of U.S. Government securities and isa market maker in derivatives products, including swap agreements, optioncontracts, forward settlement contracts, financial futures and other derivativeproducts in certain interest rate, foreign exchange, commodity and equitymarkets. In support of these activities, Global Finance takes positions to support client demands and its own account. Major centers for such activities are Charlotte, Chicago, London, New York, Singapore and Tokyo. Financial Services is primarily comprised of NationsCredit Corporation, aholding company, which includes NationsCredit Consumer Corporation andNationsCredit Commercial Corporation. NationsCredit Consumer Corporation, whichhas approximately 264 offices located in 32 states, provides personal, mortgageand automobile loans to consumers and retail finance programs to dealers.NationsCredit Commercial Corporation consists of divisions that specialize inthe following areas of commercial finance: equipment loans and leases; loans fordebt restructuring, mergers and acquisitions and working capital; real estate,golf/recreational and health care financing; and inventory financing tomanufacturers, distributors and dealers. Additional information about the registrant and its operations isincorporated by reference from Table Two (page 19) and the narrative commentsunder the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis -- Business UnitOperations" (pages 19 through 22) in the registrant's 1996 Annual Report toShareholders. 2  PRIMARY MARKET AREAS The registrant provides banking and banking-related services primarilythroughout the Mid-Atlantic (Maryland, Virginia and the District of Columbia),the Midwest (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas and Missouri), the Southeast (Florida,Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee) and theSouthwest (Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas). The registrant serves anaggregate of over 13 million customers in these regions, and management believesthat these are dynamic regions in which to be located. Personal income levels inthese regions as a whole rose 5.1% between 1995 and 1996, and the population inthese areas as a whole rose an estimated 1.2% between 1995 and 1996. The numberof housing permits authorized increased 8.4% between 1995 and 1996, ranging froman increase of 2.95% in the Mid-Atlantic to an increase of 11.84% in theMidwest. Between 1995 and 1996, the levels of unemployment in these regions as awhole fell by approximately .20 percentage points, for an average unemploymentrate of 4.98% in 1996. The registrant has the leading deposit market share position in Georgia,Kansas, Maryland, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas and Virginia. In addition, theregistrant ranks second in terms of deposit market share in Arkansas, theDistrict of Columbia, Missouri and South Carolina, third in Florida, fourth inNorth Carolina, fifth in Tennessee and sixth in Iowa. The registrant has lessthan 1% of the market share in Illinois and Kentucky.GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION GENERAL As a registered bank holding company, the registrant is subject to thesupervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of theFederal Reserve System (the "Federal Reserve Board"). The Banks are organized asnational banking associations, which are subject to regulation, supervision andexamination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the"Comptroller"), and as state chartered banks, which are subject to regulation,supervision and examination by the relevant state regulators. The Banks are alsosubject to regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC")and other federal regulatory agencies. The registrant also owns a federalsavings bank which is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by theOffice of Thrift Supervision. In addition to banking laws, regulations andregulatory agencies, the registrant and its subsidiaries and affiliates aresubject to various other laws and regulations and supervision and examination byother regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect theoperations and management of the registrant and its ability to makedistributions. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of those lawsand regulations that affect the registrant. The activities of the registrant, and those of companies which it controlsor in which it holds more than 5% of the voting stock, are limited to banking ormanaging or controlling banks or furnishing services to or performing servicesfor its subsidiaries, or any other activity which the Federal Reserve Boarddetermines to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banksas to be a proper incident thereto. In making such determinations, the FederalReserve Board is required to consider whether the performance of such activitiesby a bank holding company or its subsidiaries can reasonably be expected toproduce benefits to the public such as greater convenience, increasedcompetition or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible adverse effects, suchas undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflictsof interest or unsound banking practices. Generally, bank holding companies,such as the registrant, are required to obtain prior approval of the FederalReserve Board to engage in any new activity or to acquire more than 5% of anyclass of voting stock of any company. Bank holding companies are also required to obtain the prior approval ofthe Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of any class of votingstock of any bank which is not already majority-owned by the bank holdingcompany. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching EfficiencyAct of 1994 (the "Interstate Banking and Branching Act"), a bank holding companybecame able to acquire banks in states other than its home state, beginningSeptember 29, 1995, without regard to the permissibility of such acquisitionsunder state law, but subject to any state requirement that the bank has beenorganized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years,and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to or following theproposed acquisition, controls no more than 10% of the total amount of depositsof insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% ofsuch deposits in that state (or such lesser or greater amount set by state law). 3   The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also authorizes banks to mergeacross state lines, thereby creating interstate branches, beginning June 1,1997. Under such legislation, each state has the opportunity either to "opt out"of this provision, thereby prohibiting interstate branching in such states, orto "opt in" at an earlier time, thereby allowing interstate branching withinthat state prior to June 1, 1997. Furthermore, pursuant to the InterstateBanking and Branching Act, a bank is now able to open new branches in a state inwhich it does not already have banking operations if such state enacts a lawpermitting such DE NOVO branching. Of those states in which the Banks arelocated, Delaware, Maryland, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma and Virginiahave enacted legislation to "opt in", thereby permitting interstate branchingprior to June 1, 1997, and Texas has adopted legislation to "opt out" of theinterstate branching provisions (which Texas law currently expires on September2, 1999). To the extent permitted under these laws, the registrant plans toconsolidate the Banks (with the exception of NationsBank of Delaware, N.A.) intoa single bank as soon as practicable. The registrant currently operates fourinterstate banks (i.e., banks with banking centers in more than one state):NationsBank, N.A., headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, with offices inMaryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and the District ofColumbia; NationsBank, N.A. (South), headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, withoffices in Florida and Georgia; NationsBank, N.A. (Midwest), headquartered inKansas City, Missouri, with offices in Kansas and Missouri; and The Boatmen'sNational Bank of St. Louis, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, with officesin Illinois and Missouri. As previously described, the registrant regularlyevaluates merger and acquisition opportunities, and it anticipates that it willcontinue to evaluate such opportunities in light of the new legislation. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industryare frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before thevarious bank regulatory agencies. The likelihood and timing of any suchproposals or bills and the impact they might have on the registrant and itssubsidiaries cannot be determined at this time. CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS The Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issuedsubstantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable toUnited States banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies mayfrom time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above theminimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual oranticipated growth. The Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelines define atwo-tier capital framework. Tier 1 capital consists of common and qualifyingpreferred shareholders' equity, less certain intangibles and other adjustments.Tier 2 capital consists of subordinated and other qualifying debt, and theallowance for credit losses up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets. The sum of Tier1 and Tier 2 capital less investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries representsqualifying total capital, at least 50% of which must consist of Tier 1 capital.Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Tier 1 and total capital byrisk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet exposures are assigned to oneof four categories of risk-weights, based primarily on relative credit risk. Theminimum Tier 1 capital ratio is 4% and the minimum total capital ratio is 8%.The registrant's Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios under theseguidelines at December 31, 1996 were 7.76% and 12.66%, respectively. The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjustedaverage total assets. Although the stated minimum ratio is 3%, most bankingorganizations are required to maintain ratios of at least 100 to 200 basispoints above 3%. The registrant's leverage ratio at December 31, 1996 was 7.09%.Management believes that the registrant meets its leverage ratio requirement. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991("FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insureddepository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized,undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and criticallyundercapitalized) and requires the respective Federal regulatory agencies toimplement systems for "prompt corrective action" for insured depositoryinstitutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within suchcategories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints onoperations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category inwhich an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines couldalso subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An"undercapitalized" bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parentholding company must guarantee that bank's compliance with the plan. Theliability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited tothe lesser of 5% of the bank's assets at the time it became "undercapitalized"or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event 4  of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would takepriority over the parent's general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIArequires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capitalstandards for safety and soundness relating generally to operations andmanagement, asset quality and executive compensation and permits regulatoryaction against a financial institution that does not meet such standards. The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similarregulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, usingthe total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capitalratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish variousdegrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is consideredundercapitalized. Under the regulations, a "well capitalized" institution musthave a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a total capital ratio of atleast 10 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subjectto a capital directive order. An "adequately capitalized" institution must havea Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a total capital ratio of at least8 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4 percent, or 3 percent in somecases. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks is considered well capitalized. Banking agencies have also adopted final regulations which mandate thatregulators take into consideration concentrations of credit risk and risks fromnon-traditional activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage thoserisks, when determining the adequacy of an institution's capital. Thatevaluation will be made as a part of the institution's regular safety andsoundness examination. Banking agencies also have adopted final regulationsrequiring regulators to consider interest rate risk (when the interest ratesensitivity of an institution's assets does not match the sensitivity of itsliabilities or its off-balance-sheet position) in the determination of a bank'scapital adequacy. Concurrently, banking agencies have proposed a methodology forevaluating interest rate risk. After gaining experience with the proposedmeasurement process, those banking agencies intend to propose furtherregulations to establish an explicit risk-based capital charge for interest raterisk. DISTRIBUTIONS The registrant's funds for cash distributions to its shareholders arederived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. Theprimary source of such funds, however, is dividends received from the Banks.Each of the Banks is subject to various general regulatory policies andrequirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements tomaintain capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatoryauthority is authorized to determine under certain circumstances relating to thefinancial condition of the bank or bank holding company that the payment ofdividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit paymentthereof. In addition to the foregoing, the ability of the registrant and the Banksto pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements andthe capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as describedabove. The right of the registrant, its shareholders and its creditors toparticipate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of its subsidiaries isfurther subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. SOURCE OF STRENGTH According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies areexpected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and tocommit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be requiredat times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support.Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit InsuranceAct, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC -- either as aresult of default of a banking or thrift subsidiary of the registrant or relatedto FDIC assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default -- the otherBanks may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The following information set forth in the 1996 Annual Report toShareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: Table Three (page 21) for average balance sheet amounts, related taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, and related average yields earned and rates paid. 5   Table Four (page 23) and the narrative comments under the caption "Net Interest Income" (page 22) for changes in taxable-equivalent interest income and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The narrative comments under the caption "Securities" (pages 27 and 28) and Note Three (pages 56 through 58) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the book values, maturities and weighted average yields of the securities (by category) of the registrant. Tables Seven (page 28), Eight (page 29) and Nineteen (page 41) for distribution of loans, leases and factored accounts receivable, selected loan maturity data and interest-rate risk. Table Fourteen (page 36), the narrative comments under the caption "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Nonperforming Assets" (pages 36 and 37), and Note One (page 54) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the nonperforming assets of the registrant. Table Fifteen (page 36) for information on loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest. The narrative comments under the captions "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review" (pages 32 through 35) and "Loans And Leases" (pages 28 and 29) and Tables Seventeen and Eighteen (pages 38 and 39) for a discussion of the characteristics of the loan and lease portfolio. Tables Twelve (page 34) and Thirteen (page 35), the narrative comments under the captions "Provision for Credit Losses" (pages 22 through 24) and "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Allowance for Credit Losses" (page 35) and Note One (page 54) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the credit loss experience of the registrant. Table Three (page 21) and the narrative comments under the caption "Deposits" (page 29) for deposit information. "Six-Year Consolidated Statistical Summary" (page 73) for return on assets, return on equity and dividend payout ratio for 1991 through 1996, inclusive. Table Nine (page 30) and Note Six (pages 60 and 61) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the short-term borrowings of the registrant. All tables, graphs, charts, summaries and narrative on pages 17 through 47 and pages 72 and 73 for additional data on the consolidated operations of the registrant and its majority-owned subsidiaries.COMPETITION The activities in which the registrant and its three major business units(the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services) engage are highlycompetitive. Generally, the lines of activity and markets served involvecompetition with other banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions andother non-bank financial institutions, such as investment banking firms,brokerage firms, mutual funds and insurance companies, as well as other entitieswhich offer financial services, located both within and without the UnitedStates. The methods of competition center around various factors, such ascustomer services, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits andlocation of offices. The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by theregistrant's three major business units is highly competitive. The General Bank,Global Finance and Financial Services compete with other commercial banks,savings and loan associations, finance companies and other businesses whichprovide similar services. The three major business units actively compete incommercial lending activities with local, regional and international banks andnon-bank financial organizations, some of which are larger than certain of theregistrant's non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks. In its consumer lendingoperations, the competitors of the three major business units include otherbanks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, regulated small loancompanies and other non-bank organizations offering financial services. In theinvestment banking, investment advisory and brokerage business, the registrant'snon-banking subsidiaries compete with other banking and investment bankingfirms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, mutual funds and otherorganizations offering similar services. The registrant's mortgage bankingsubsidiary competes with commercial banks, savings and loan associations,government agencies, mortgage brokers and other non-bank organizations offeringmortgage banking services. In the trust business, the Banks compete with otherbanks, investment counselors and insurance companies in national markets forinstitutional funds and corporate pension and profit sharing accounts. The Banksalso compete with other banks, trust companies, insurance agents, 6  financial counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. Theregistrant and its three major business units also actively compete for funds. Aprimary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for depositsincludes other deposit-taking organizations, such as commercial banks, savingsand loan associations and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds. The registrant's ability to expand into additional states remains subjectto various federal and state laws. See "Government Supervision andRegulation -- General" for a more detailed discussion of interstate banking andbranching legislation and certain state legislation.EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 1996, the registrant and its subsidiaries had 62,971full-time equivalent employees. Of the foregoing employees, 35,766 were employedby the General Bank, 5,178 were employed by Global Finance, 3,129 were employedby Financial Services, 14,815 were employed by NationsBanc Services, Inc. (asubsidiary providing operational support services to the registrant and itssubsidiaries) and the remainder were employed by the registrant holding companyand the registrant's other subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1996, BBI and itssubsidiaries had 19,028 full-time equivalent employees. None of the registrant'sdomestic employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Managementconsiders its employee relations to be good.ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The principal offices of the registrant, as well as the General Bank andGlobal Finance, are located in the 60-story NationsBank Corporate Center inCharlotte, North Carolina, which is owned by a subsidiary of the registrant. Theregistrant occupies approximately 512,000 square feet at market rates under alease which expires in 2002, and approximately 593,000 square feet of officespace is available for lease to third parties at market rates. At December 31,1996, substantially all of the space was occupied by the registrant or subjectto existing third party leases or letters of intention to lease. The principal offices of Financial Services are located in approximately136,000 square feet of space leased by NationsCredit Corporation andNationsCredit Consumer Corporation in Irving, Texas, under a lease which expiresin 2006, and 40,000 square feet of space leased by NationsCredit CommercialCorporation in Stamford, Connecticut, under a lease which expires in 1998. The registrant also leases or owns a significant amount of space inAlbuquerque, New Mexico; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Dallas, Texas;Richmond, Virginia; St. Louis, Missouri; and Wichita, Kansas; as well asadditional premises in Charlotte and throughout its franchise. As of January 7,1997, the registrant and its subsidiaries owned or leased approximately 3,340locations in 22 states, the District of Columbia and 10 foreign countries.ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of business, the registrant and its subsidiaries areroutinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legalactions and proceedings, including several actions brought on behalf of variousclasses of claimants. In certain of these actions and proceedings substantialmoney damages are asserted against the registrant and its subsidiaries andcertain of these actions and proceedings are based on alleged violations ofconsumer protection, securities, environmental, banking and other laws.Management believes, based upon the advice of counsel, that these actions andproceedings and the losses, if any, resulting from the final outcome thereof,will not be material in the aggregate to the registrant's financial position orresults of operations. 7  ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS A special meeting of shareholders was held on December 20, 1996 (the"Special Meeting"). The registrant's Common Stock and ESOP Convertible PreferredStock, Series C, voted together as a single class on the matters submitted tothe shareholders at the Special Meeting. The following are voting results oneach of these matters: ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Pursuant to the Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of RegulationS-K, the name, age and position of each executive officer and the principalaccounting officer of the registrant are listed below along with such officer'sbusiness experience during the past five years. Officers are appointed annuallyby the Board of Directors at the meeting of directors immediately following theannual meeting of shareholders. There are no arrangements or understandingsbetween any officer and any other person pursuant to which any officer wasselected. Andrew B. Craig, III, age 66, Chairman of the Board of the registrant. Mr.Craig was Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Boatmen'sBancshares, Inc. from 1988 until January 7, 1997 when Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc.was merged with the registrant at which time he was elected as Chairman of theBoard and a director of the registrant. He also served as President of Boatmen'sBancshares, Inc. from 1985 to 1994. Fredric J. Figge, II, age 60, Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of theregistrant and of the Banks. Mr. Figge was named Chairman, Corporate Risk Policyin October 1993 and prior to that time served as Chairman, Credit Policy of theregistrant and of the Banks. He first became an officer in 1987. James H. Hance, Jr., age 52, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer ofthe registrant. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August 1988, alsoserved as Executive Vice President from March 1987 to October 1993 and was namedVice Chairman in October 1993. He first became an officer in 1987. He alsoserves as a director of NationsBank, N.A., NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A. andvarious other subsidiaries of the registrant. Kenneth D. Lewis, age 49, President of the registrant. Mr. Lewis was namedto his present position in October 1993. Prior to that time, from June 1990 toOctober 1993 he served as President of the registrant's General Bank. He firstbecame an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as Chairman and a director ofNationsBank, N.A., as President and a director of NationsBank, N.A. (South) andas a director of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. Hugh L. McColl, Jr., age 61, Chief Executive Officer of the registrant andChief Executive Officer of the Banks. Mr. McColl was Chairman of the registrantfrom September 1983 until December 31, 1991, and from December 31, 1992 untilJanuary 7, 1997. He first became an officer in 1962. He also serves as adirector of the registrant. 8   Marc D. Oken, age 50, Executive Vice President and Principal AccountingOfficer of the registrant. He first became an officer in 1989. F. William Vandiver, Jr., age 55, President of NationsBank Global Finance,which includes Corporate Finance/Capital Markets, Real Estate and SpecializedLending. Mr. Vandiver was named President of NationsBank Global Finance inJanuary 1996. In 1984, he was named Investment Banking Company executive andpresident in 1988. He has been an officer since 1968. He also serves asPresident and a director of NationsBank, N.A. PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS The principal market on which the registrant's common stock (the "CommonStock") is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The Common Stock is alsolisted on the London Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange, and certainshares are listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The following table sets forththe high and low sales prices of Common Stock on the New York Stock ExchangeComposite Transactions List, restated to give effect to the Split, for theperiods indicated: As of January 7,, 1997, there were 145,657 record holders of Common Stock.During 1995 and 1996, the registrant paid dividends on the Common Stock on aquarterly basis. The following table sets forth dividends declared per share ofCommon Stock for the periods indicated, restated to give effect to the Split: For additional information regarding the registrant's ability to paydividends, see "Government Supervision and Regulation -- Distributions." NoteNine (page 63) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in theregistrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated byreference.ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information set forth in Table One (page 18) in the registrant's 1996Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All of the information set forth under the captions "Management'sDiscussion and Analysis -- 1996 Compared to 1995" (pages 17 through 43),"Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1995 Compared to 1994" (pages 43through 47), "Report of Management" (page 48) and all tables, graphs and chartspresented under 9  the foregoing captions in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders of theregistrant are hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The following information set forth in the 1996 Annual Report toShareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes To Consolidated FinancialStatements of NationsBank Corporation and Subsidiaries, together with the reportthereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 10, 1997 (pages 48 through 71);the unaudited information presented in Table Twenty (page 44); and the narrativecomments under the caption "Fourth Quarter Review" (page 43).ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accountingand financial disclosure. PART IIIITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 2through 8 of the definitive 1997 Proxy Statement of the registrant furnished toshareholders in connection with its Annual Meeting to be held on April 23, 1997(the "1997 Proxy Statement") with respect to the name of each nominee ordirector, that person's age, positions and offices with the registrant, businessexperience, directorships in other public companies, service on the registrant'sBoard and certain family relationships, and information set forth under thecaption "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" on page 11 ofthe 1997 Proxy Statement with respect to Section 16 matters, is herebyincorporated by reference. The information required by Item 10 with respect toexecutive officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A hereof.ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers,certain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtednessand other transactions set forth in the 1997 Proxy Statement (i) under thecaption "Board of Directors' Compensation" on pages 11 and 12 thereof, (ii)under the caption "Executive Compensation" on pages 12 and 13 thereof, (iii)under the caption "Retirement Plans" on pages 13 and 14 thereof, (iv) under thecaption "Deferred Compensation Plan" on page 14 thereof, (v) under the caption"Special Compensation Arrangement" on page 14 thereof, (vi) under the caption"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 18thereof, and (vii) under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 18 and 19thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 402 ofRegulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-Krelating to persons who beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding sharesof Common Stock, ESOP Preferred Stock or 7% Cumulative Redeemable PreferredStock, Series B, as well as security ownership information relating todirectors, nominees and named executive officers individually and directors andexecutive officers as a group, is hereby incorporated by reference to theownership information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of CertainBeneficial Owners and Management" on pages 8 through 10 of the 1997 ProxyStatement.ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information with respect to relationships and related transactions betweenthe registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,security holder owning 5% or more of the registrant's voting securities or anymember of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forth in the 1997Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and InsiderParticipation" on page 18 and under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages18 and 19 thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 404 ofRegulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference. 10   PART IVITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K a. The following documents are filed as part of this report: b. The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the registrant during the quarter ended December 31, 1996: Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 15, 1996 and filed October 25, 1996, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K/A-2 dated August 29, 1996 and filed November 13, 1996, Item 7. The following financial statements of the business to be acquired (Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc.) were filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A-2: Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 1996 (unaudited), June 30, 1996 (unaudited) and December 31, 1995 and 1994; Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited), the six months ended June 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited) and the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994; Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the nine months ended September 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited), the six months ended June 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited) and the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994; and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited), the six months ended June 30, 1996 and 1995 (unaudited) and the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994. In addition, the following unaudited pro forma financial information was filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A-2: Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Balance Sheet as of September 30, 1996; Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 1996; and Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Statement of Income for the year ended December 31, 1995. Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 8, 1996 and filed November 14, 1996, Items 5 and 7. 11   Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 27, 1996 and filed December 4, 1996, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 1996 and filed December 17, 1996, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 13, 1996 and filed December 17, 1996, Items 5 and 7. c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-5, including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are identified separately by asterisk). With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated byreference, the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and the 1997 Proxy Statementare not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 
