 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995 -- Commission File Number 1-6523 NATIONSBANK CORPORATION (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONEIndicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports requiredto be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during thepreceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements forthe past 90 days. Yes X NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to thebest of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statementsincorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or in any amendment tothis Form 10-K. ( )Aggregate market value of shares of voting stock held by all persons, other thanshares beneficially owned by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates (asdefined in SEC Rule 405), is approximately $21,637,312,000 computed by referenceto the closing price of Common Stock of $74.00 per share on March 15, 1996, onthe New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions List, as reported inpublished financial sources, and a stated price of $42.50 for the ESOPConvertible Preferred Stock, Series C.Of the registrant's only class of Common Stock, there were 300,462,332 sharesoutstanding as of March 1, 1996. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  PART IITEM 1. BUSINESSGENERAL The registrant is a North Carolina corporation and a bank holding companyregistered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Act"),with its principal assets being the stock of its subsidiaries. Through itsbanking subsidiaries (the "Banks") and its various non-banking subsidiaries, theregistrant provides banking and banking-related services, primarily throughoutthe Southeast and Mid-Atlantic states and Texas. The principal executive officesof the registrant are located at NationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte,North Carolina 28255.ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS On March 31, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary acquired a$10 billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio from Source One MortgageServices Corporation at a purchase price of approximately $190 million. On March 31, 1995, the registrant's mortgage banking subsidiary acquiredthe residential mortgage servicing business of KeyCorp Mortgage Inc. fromKeyCorp and Key Bank of New York. The acquired assets included primarily a $25billion residential mortgage servicing portfolio, for which the registrant'ssubsidiary paid approximately $339 million, and a mortgage servicing operationemploying about 430 people and other servicing-related assets, for which thissubsidiary paid approximately $150 million. The registrant and BankAmerica Corporation formed MECA Software LLC("MECA"), and, on June 30, 1995, MECA purchased MECA Software, Inc. and its"Managing Your Money" software for an aggregate purchase price of approximately$35 million. First Bank System, Fleet Financial Group and Royal Bank of Canadasubsequently joined MECA. On December 4, 1995, the registrant completed the sale of the portion ofits corporate trust business that deals with bond servicing and administrationto The Bank of New York. On December 13, 1995, the registrant completed the acquisition ofIntercontinental Bank ("ICBK"). As of the acquisition date, ICBK had assets ofapproximately $1.1 billion and deposits of approximately $910 million. Theregistrant issued 0.4153 shares of its common stock in exchange for eachoutstanding share of ICBK common stock, for an aggregate purchase price ofapproximately 3 million shares of the registrant's common stock. On December 21, 1995, the registrant completed the acquisition of NorthFlorida Bank Corporation ("NFBC"). As of the acquisition date, NFBC had assetsof approximately $50 million and deposits of approximately $44 million. Theregistrant issued 0.7797 shares of its common stock for each outstanding shareof NFBC common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 103,000shares of the registrant's common stock. On January 9, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Bank SouthCorporation ("BKSO"). As of the acquisition date, BKSO had assets ofapproximately $7.4 billion and deposits of approximately $5.1 billion. Theregistrant issued 0.44 shares of its common stock for each outstanding share ofBKSO common stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 26 millionshares of the registrant's common stock. On January 10, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of CSFHoldings, Inc. ("CSF"). As of the acquisition date, CSF had assets ofapproximately $4.8 billion and deposits of approximately $3.8 billion. Thepurchase price was approximately $516 million and was paid in cash. On January 25, 1996, the registrant entered into an agreement to acquireCharter Bancshares, Inc. ("CBI") by exchanging each outstanding share of CBIcapital stock for 0.385 shares of the registrant's common stock, for anaggregate purchase price of approximately 1.4 million shares of the registrant'scommon stock. As of December 31, 1995, CBI had assets of approximately $915million and deposits of approximately $734 million. Subject to certainregulatory approvals, the approval of CBI's shareholders and other closingconditions, this transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarterof 1996. 1   On January 31, 1996, the registrant completed the acquisition of Sun World,N.A. ("Sun World"). As of the acquisition date, Sun World had assets ofapproximately $136 million and deposits of approximately $123 million. Thepurchase price was approximately $16 million and was paid in cash. On February 15, 1996, the registrant, through NationsCredit CommercialCorporation, its wholly owned, indirect subsidiary engaged primarily in thecommercial financial services business, entered into an agreement to acquire LDICorporation ("LDI") by purchasing all the outstanding shares of capital stock ofLDI at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $28 million, payable incash. As of October 31, 1995, LDI had assets of approximately $335 million.Subject to certain regulatory approvals, the approval of LDI's shareholders andother closing conditions, this transaction is expected to be completed in thesecond quarter of 1996. As part of its operations, the registrant regularly evaluates the potentialacquisition of, and holds discussions with, various financial institutions andother businesses of a type eligible for bank holding company investment. Inaddition, the registrant regularly analyzes the values of, and submits bids for,the acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilities and assets of suchfinancial institutions and other businesses. As a general rule, the registrantpublicly announces such material acquisitions when a definitive agreement hasbeen reached.OPERATIONS The registrant provides a diversified range of banking and certainnonbanking financial services and products through its various subsidiaries. Theregistrant manages its business activities through three major business units:the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services. The General Bank provides comprehensive services in the commercial andretail banking fields, including trust and private banking operations, theorigination and servicing of home mortgage loans, the issuance and servicing ofcredit cards (through a Delaware subsidiary), indirect lending, dealer financeand certain insurance services. The General Bank also offers full servicebrokerage services and discount brokerage services and provides investmentadvisory services to a proprietary mutual fund, as well as investmentmanagement, banking and fiduciary services through subsidiaries of theregistrant. As of December 31, 1995, the General Bank operated approximately1,833 banking offices through the following Banks: NationsBank, N.A. (servingthe States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Maryland and Virginia and theDistrict of Columbia); NationsBank, N.A. (South) (serving the States of Floridaand Georgia); NationsBank of Kentucky, N.A.; NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A; andNationsBank of Texas, N.A. The General Bank also provides fully automated,24-hour cash dispensing and depositing services throughout the states in whichit is located, through approximately 2,292 automated teller machines. Global Finance provides comprehensive corporate banking and investmentbanking services to domestic and international customers, including treasurymanagement, loan syndication, asset-backed lending, leasing, factoring andarrangement of asset-backed and project financing, as well as underwriting,trading or distributing a wide range of securities (including bank-eligiblesecurities and, to a limited extent, bank-ineligible securities as authorized bythe Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal ReserveBoard") under Section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act), and trading anddistributing a wide range of derivative products in certain interest rate,foreign exhange, commodity and equity markets. Global Finance provides itsservices through various offices located in major United States cities as wellas in London, Frankfurt, Singapore, Bogota, Mexico City, Grand Cayman, Nassau,Seoul, Tokyo, Osaka, Taipei and Hong Kong. Financial Services consists of NationsCredit Consumer Corporation (formerlyNationsCredit Corporation), primarily a consumer finance subsidiary, andNationsCredit Commercial Corporation (formerly Greyrock Capital Group Inc.),primarily a commercial finance subsidiary. NationsCredit Consumer Corporation,which has approximately 371 offices located in 34 states, provides personal,mortgage and automobile loans to consumers and retail finance programs todealers. NationsCredit Commercial Corporation consists of six divisions thatspecialize in one or more of the following areas: equipment loans and leasing;loans for debt restructuring, mergers and acquisitions and working capital; realestate, golf/recreational and health care financing; and inventory financing tomanufacturers, distributors and dealers. 2   Additional information about the registrant and its operations isincorporated by reference from Table Two (page 16) and the narrative commentsunder the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis -- Business UnitOperations" (pages 14 through 19) in the registrant's 1995 Annual Report toShareholders.GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION GENERAL As a registered bank holding company, the registrant is subject to thesupervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. TheBanks are organized as national banking associations, which are subject toregulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of theCurrency (the "Comptroller"). The Banks are also subject to regulation by theFederal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the "FDIC") and other federal regulatoryagencies. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, theregistrant and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to various other lawsand regulations and supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies,all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of theregistrant and its ability to make distributions. The following discussionsummarizes certain aspects of those laws and regulations that affect theregistrant. Under the Act, the activities of the registrant, and those of companieswhich it controls or in which it holds more than 5% of the voting stock, arelimited to banking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to orperforming services for its subsidiaries, or any other activity which theFederal Reserve Board determines to be so closely related to banking or managingor controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making suchdeterminations, the Federal Reserve Board is required to consider whether theperformance of such activities by a bank holding company or its subsidiaries canreasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such as greaterconvenience, increased competition or gains in efficiency that outweigh possibleadverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfaircompetition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. Generally, bankholding companies, such as the registrant, are required to obtain prior approvalof the Federal Reserve Board to engage in any new activity or to acquire morethan 5% of any class of voting stock of any company. The Act also requires bank holding companies to obtain the prior approvalof the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of any class ofvoting stock of any bank which is not already majority-owned by the bank holdingcompany. Pursuant to the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching EfficiencyAct of 1994 (the "Interstate Banking and Branching Act"), which became effectiveSeptember 29, 1995, a bank holding company may acquire banks in states otherthan its home state subject to any state requirement that the bank has beenorganized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years,and the requirement that the bank holding company, prior to or following theproposed acquisition, controls no more than 10% of the total amount of depositsof insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30% ofsuch deposits in that state (or such lesser or greater amount set by state law). The Interstate Banking and Branching Act also authorizes banks to mergeacross state lines, thereby creating interstate branches, beginning June 1,1997. Under such legislation, each state has the opportunity either to "opt out"of this provision, thereby prohibiting interstate branching in such states, orto "opt in" at an earlier time, thereby allowing interstate branching withinthat state prior to June 1, 1997. Furthermore, pursuant to the InterstateBanking and Branching Act, a bank is now able to open new branches in a state inwhich it does not already have banking operations if such state enacts a lawpermitting such DE NOVO branching. As previously described, the registrant regularly evaluates merger andacquisition opportunities, and it anticipates that it will continue to evaluatesuch opportunities in light of the new legislation. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking industryare frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before thevarious bank regulatory agencies. In 1995, several bills were introduced inCongress that would have the effect of broadening the securities underwritingpowers of bank holding companies and, possibly, permitting bank holdingcompanies to engage in nonfinancial activities. The likelihood and timing of anysuch proposals or bills and the impact they might have on the registrant and itssubsidiaries cannot be determined at this time. 3   CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS The Federal Reserve Board, the Comptroller and the FDIC have issuedsubstantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable toUnited States banking organizations. In addition, those regulatory agencies mayfrom time to time require that a banking organization maintain capital above theminimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual oranticipated growth. The guidelines are summarized in the narrative commentsunder the caption "Capital Resources and Capital Management" (page 40) set forthin the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders of the registrant which are herebyincorporated by reference. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991("FDICIA"), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insureddepository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized,undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and criticallyundercapitalized) and requires the respective Federal regulatory agencies toimplement systems for "prompt corrective action" for insured depositoryinstitutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within suchcategories. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints onoperations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category inwhich an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines couldalso subject a banking institution to capital raising requirements. An"undercapitalized" bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parentholding company must guarantee that bank's compliance with the plan. Theliability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee is limited tothe lesser of 5% of the bank's assets at the time it became "undercapitalized"or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of thebankruptcy of the parent holding company, such guarantee would take priorityover the parent's general unsecured creditors. In addition, FDICIA requires thevarious regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards forsafety and soundness relating generally to operations and management, assetquality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against afinancial institution that does not meet such standards. The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similarregulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, usingthe total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capitalratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish variousdegrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is consideredundercapitalized. Under the regulations, a "well capitalized" institution musthave a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a total capital ratio of atleast 10 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subjectto a capital directive order. An "adequately capitalized" institution must havea Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a total capital ratio of at least8 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4 percent, or 3 percent in somecases. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks is considered adequately orwell capitalized. Banking agencies have also adopted final regulations which mandate thatregulators take into consideration concentrations of credit risk and risks fromnon-traditional activities, as well as an institution's ability to manage thoserisks, when determining the adequacy of an institution's capital. Thatevaluation will be made as a part of the institution's regular safety andsoundness examination. Banking agencies also have proposed amendments toexisting risk-based capital regulations to provide for the consideration ofinterest rate risk (when the interest rate sensitivity of an institution'sassets does not match the sensitivity of its liabilities or itsoff-balance-sheet position) in the determination of a bank's minimum capitalrequirements. This proposal, while still under consideration, would requirebanks with interest rate risk in excess of defined thresholds to maintainadditional capital beyond that generally required. DISTRIBUTIONS The registrant's funds for cash distributions to its shareholders arederived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. Theprimary source of such funds, however, is dividends received from the Banks. Theamount of dividends that each Bank may declare in a calendar year withoutapproval of the Comptroller is the Bank's net profits for that year, as definedby statute, combined with its net retained profits, as defined, for thepreceding two years. In addition, from time to time the registrant applies for,and may receive, permission from the Comptroller for one or more of the Banks todeclare special dividends. In 1996, the Banks can initiate dividend payments,without prior regulatory approval, of up to an aggregate of $905 million plus anadditional amount equal to their net profits for 1996 up to the date of any suchdividend declaration. 4   In addition to the foregoing, the ability of the registrant and the Banksto pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements andthe capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as describedabove. Furthermore, the Comptroller may prohibit the payment of a dividend by anational bank if it determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe orunsound practice. The right of the registrant, its shareholders and itscreditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of itssubsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of therespective subsidiaries. SOURCE OF STRENGTH According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies areexpected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and tocommit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be requiredat times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support.Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit InsuranceAct, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC -- either as aresult of default of a banking or thrift subsidiary of the registrant or relatedto FDIC assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default -- the otherBanks may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certain exceptions.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The following information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report toShareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: Table Three (page 18) for average balance sheet amounts, related taxable-equivalent interest earned or paid, and related average yields earned and rates paid. Table Four (page 20) and the narrative comments under the caption "Net Interest Income" (page 19) for changes in taxable-equivalent interest income and expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The narrative comments under the caption "Securities" (pages 25 and 26) and Note Three (pages 54 through 56) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the book values, maturities and weighted average yields of the securities (by category) of the registrant. Tables Eight (page 26), Nine (page 27) and Twenty (page 39) for distribution of loans and leases, selected loan maturity data and interest-rate risk. Table Fifteen (page 34), the narrative comments under the caption "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Nonperforming Assets" (pages 33 and 34), and Note One (page 52) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the nonperforming assets of the registrant. The narrative comments under the captions "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review" (pages 31 and 32) and "Loans and Leases" (pages 26 and 27) and Tables Seventeen, Eighteen and Nineteen (pages 36 and 37) for a discussion of the characteristics of the loan and lease portfolio. Tables Thirteen (page 32) and Fourteen (page 33), the narrative comments under the captions "Provision for Credit Losses" (page 19) and "Credit Risk Management And Credit Portfolio Review -- Allowance for Credit Losses" (pages 32 and 33) and Note One (page 52) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the credit loss experience of the registrant. Table Three (page 18) and the narrative comments under the caption "Deposits" (page 27) for deposit information. "Six-Year Consolidated Statistical Summary" (page 69) for return on assets, return on equity and dividend payout ratio for 1990 through 1995, inclusive. Table Ten (page 28) and Note Six (pages 58 and 59) of the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the short-term borrowings of the registrant. All tables, graphs, charts, summaries and narrative on pages 14 through 45 and pages 68 and 69 for additional data on the consolidated operations of the registrant and its majority-owned subsidiaries. 5  COMPETITION The activities in which the registrant and its three major business units(the General Bank, Global Finance and Financial Services) engage are highlycompetitive. Generally, the lines of activity and markets served involvecompetition with other banks and non-bank financial institutions, such asinvestment banking firms, brokerage firms, mutual funds and insurance companies,as well as other entities which offer financial services, located both withinand without the United States. The methods of competition center around variousfactors, such as customer services, interest rates on loans and deposits,lending limits and location of offices. The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by theregistrant's three major business units is highly competitive. The General Bank,Global Finance and Financial Services compete with other commercial banks,savings and loan associations, finance companies and other businesses whichprovide similar services. The three major business units actively compete incommercial lending activities with local, regional and international banks andnon-bank financial organizations, some of which are larger than certain of theregistrant's non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks. In its consumer lendingoperations, the competitors of the three major business units include otherbanks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, regulated small loancompanies and other non-bank organizations offering financial services. In theinvestment banking, investment advisory and brokerage business, the registrant'snon-banking subsidiaries compete with other banking and investment bankingfirms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms and mutual funds. Theregistrant's mortgage banking subsidiary competes with commercial banks, savingsand loan associations, government agencies, mortgage brokers and other non-bankorganizations offering mortgage banking services. In the trust business, theBanks compete with other banks, investment counselors and insurance companies innational markets for institutional funds and corporate pension and profitsharing accounts. The Banks also compete with other banks, insurance agents,financial counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. Theregistrant and its three major business units also actively compete for funds. Aprimary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for depositsincludes other deposit taking organizations, such as commercial banks, savingsand loan associations and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds. The registrant's ability to expand into additional states remains subjectto various federal and state laws. See "Government Supervision andRegulation -- General" for a more detailed discussion of interstate banking andbranching legislation and certain state legislation.EMPLOYEES At December 31, 1995, the registrant and its subsidiaries had 58,322full-time equivalent employees. Of the foregoing employees, 32,763 were employedby the General Bank, 5,429 were employed by Global Finance, 2,744 were employedby Financial Services, 13,300 were employed by NationsBanc Services, Inc. (asubsidiary providing operational support services to the registrant and itssubsidiaries) and the remainder were employed by the registrant holding companyand the registrant's other subsidiaries.ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The principal offices of the registrant are located in the 60-storyNationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is owned by asubsidiary of the registrant. The registrant occupies approximately 512,000square feet at market rates under a lease which expires in 2002, andapproximately 593,000 square feet of office space is available for lease tothird parties at market rates. At December 31, 1995, approximately 99 percentwas occupied by the registrant or subject to existing third party leases orletters of intention to lease. The principal North Carolina offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located inleased space in the 40-story NationsBank Plaza, Charlotte, North Carolina.NationsBank, N.A. is the major tenant of the building with approximately 669,000square feet of the net rentable space, of which approximately 438,000 squarefeet of space is under a lease which expires in 2009 and the remaining space isunder leases of shorter duration. The principal South Carolina offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located inapproximately 91,000 square feet of leased space in the NationsBank Tower inColumbia under a lease which is in the process of being renewed. NationsBank,N.A., through subsidiaries, owns partnership interests in the building and theunderlying land. In addition, NationsBank, N.A. maintains offices inapproximately 81,000 square feet of leased space 6  in NationsBank Plaza in Columbia under a lease that expires in 1999.NationsBank, N.A. has four five-year renewal options on this space. The principal Virginia offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located inapproximately 383,000 square feet of space in NationsBank Center in Richmond,Virginia, a facility that is owned by NationsBank, N.A. The remainingapproximately 157,000 square feet are leased to a third party tenant. The principal Maryland offices of NationsBank, N.A. are located inapproximately 135,000 square feet of leased space in the Rockledge ExecutiveCenter in Bethesda under a lease that expires in 2002. NationsBank, N.A. has twofive-year renewal options on this space. The approximately 19,000 square feet ofspace remaining is occupied by third parties under sub-leases with NationsBank,N.A. The sub-leases, which are at market rates, expire in 1997 and 2002. The principal offices of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. ("NationsBank Texas")are located in approximately 680,000 square feet of leased space in the 72-storyNationsBank Plaza in Dallas. NationsBank Texas is the major tenant of thebuilding under a lease which expires in 2001 with renewal options through 2011. The principal Florida offices of NationsBank, N.A. (South) ("NationsBankSouth") are located in approximately 238,000 square feet of leased space in theNationsBank Plaza in downtown Tampa. The lease expires in 2005. NationsBankSouth has four five-year renewal options on this space. The principal Georgia offices of NationsBank South are located in leasedspace in the 55-story NationsBank Plaza in Atlanta. The registrant, through asubsidiary, is a partner in CSC Associates, L.P., a partnership that was formedwith Cousins Properties Incorporated for the development and ownership of theoffice tower. NationsBank South is the major tenant of the building withapproximately 579,000 square feet of the net rentable space, under a lease thatexpires in 2012. NationsBank South has three ten-year renewal options on thisspace. Of the approximately 684,000 remaining square feet, 596,000 square feethas been leased to third parties, with 88,000 remaining square feet availablefor lease to third parties at market rates. The principal offices of NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A. ("NationsBankTennessee") are located in approximately 220,000 square feet of leased space inNationsBank Plaza in Nashville under a lease that expires in 2012. NationsBankTennessee has two ten-year and one five-year renewal options on this space. The principal offices of NationsCredit Consumer Corporation are located inapproximately 136,000 square feet of space in Allentown, Pennsylvania in afacility which it owns. The principal offices of NationsCredit Commercial Corporation are locatedin approximately 42,880 square feet of leased space in Canterbury Green inStamford, Connecticut, under a lease which expires in 1997. As of December 31, 1995, the registrant and its subsidiaries conductedtheir banking and bank-related activities in both leased and owned facilitiesthroughout the jurisdictions in which the Banks are located, as follows: 7  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of business, the registrant and its subsidiaries areroutinely defendants in or parties to a number of pending and threatened legalactions and proceedings, including several actions brought on behalf of variousclasses of claimants. In certain of these actions and proceedings substantialmoney damages are asserted against the registrant and its subsidiaries andcertain of these actions and proceedings are based on alleged violations ofconsumer protection, securities, banking and other laws. Management believes,based upon the advice of counsel, that these actions and proceedings and losses,if any, resulting from the final outcome thereof, will not be material in theaggregate to the registrant's financial position or results of operations.ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to security holders in the fourth quarterof the registrant's fiscal year.ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Pursuant to the Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of RegulationS-K, the name, age and position of each executive officer and the principalaccounting officer of the registrant are listed below along with such officer'sbusiness experience during the past five years. Officers are appointed annuallyby the Board of Directors at the meeting of directors immediately following theannual meeting of shareholders. There are no arrangements or understandingsbetween any officer and any other person pursuant to which any officer wasselected. Fredric J. Figge, II, age 59, Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of theregistrant and of the Banks. Mr. Figge was named Chairman, Corporate Risk Policyin October, 1993 and prior to that time served as Chairman, Credit Policy of theregistrant and of the Banks. He first became an officer in 1987. James H. Hance, Jr., age 51, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer ofthe registrant. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August, 1988,also served as Executive Vice President from March, 1987 to December 31, 1991and was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993. He first became an officer in1987. He also serves as a director of NationsBank, N.A., NationsBank Tennesseeand various other subsidiaries of the registrant. Kenneth D. Lewis, age 48, President of the registrant. Mr. Lewis was namedto his present position in October, 1993. Prior to that time, from June, 1990 toOctober, 1993 he served as President of the registrant's General Bank. He firstbecame an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as a director of NationsBank,N.A., NationsBank South and NationsBank Texas. Hugh L. McColl, Jr., age 60, Chairman of the Board and Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the registrant and Chief Executive Officer of the Banks. He firstbecame an officer in 1962. Mr. McColl was Chairman of the registrant fromSeptember, 1983 until December 31, 1991, and was re-appointed Chairman onDecember 31, 1992. He also serves as a director of the registrant andNationsBank Texas. Marc D. Oken, age 49, Executive Vice President and Principal AccountingOfficer of the registrant. He first became an officer in 1989. F. William Vandiver, Jr., age 54, President of NationsBank Global Finance,which includes Corporate Finance, Capital Markets and Specialized Lending. Mr.Vandiver was named President of NationsBank Global Finance in January, 1996. In1984, he was named Investment Banking Company executive and president in 1988.He has been an officer since 1968. 8   PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS The principal market on which the registrant's common stock (the "CommonStock") is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The registrant also listedcertain of its shares of Common Stock for trading on the Pacific Stock Exchangeand on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices of Common Stockon the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions List, as reported inpublished financial sources, for each quarterly period indicated below are asfollows: As of December 31, 1995, there were 103,137 record holders of Common Stock.During 1994 and 1995, the registrant paid dividends on the Common Stock on aquarterly basis, which aggregated $1.88 per share in 1994 and $2.08 per share in1995. For additional information regarding the registrant's ability to paydividends, see "Government Supervision and Regulation -- Distributions." Theeighth paragraph of Note Six (page 59) and Note Nine (page 60) of the Notes ToConsolidated Financial Statements in the registrant's 1995 Annual Report toShareholders are hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information set forth in Table One (page 15) in the registrant's 1995Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All of the information set forth under the captions "Management'sDiscussion and Analysis -- 1995 Compared to 1994" (pages 14 through 41),"Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1994 Compared to 1993" (pages 41through 45), "Report of Management" (page 46) and all tables, graphs and chartspresented under the foregoing captions in the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholdersof the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The following information set forth in the 1995 Annual Report toShareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: The Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes To Consolidated FinancialStatements of NationsBank Corporation and Subsidiaries, together with the reportthereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 12, 1996 (pages 46 through 67);the unaudited information presented in Table Twenty-One (page 42); and thenarrative comments under the caption "Fourth Quarter Review" (page 41). 9  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accountingand financial disclosure. PART IIIITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 3through 10 of the definitive 1996 Proxy Statement of the registrant furnished toshareholders in connection with its Annual Meeting to be held on April 24, 1996(the "1996 Proxy Statement") with respect to the name of each nominee ordirector, that person's age, positions and offices with the registrant, businessexperience, directorships in other public companies, service on the registrant'sBoard and certain family relationships, and information set forth under thecaption "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934"on page 13 of the 1996 Proxy Statement with respect to Section 16 matters, ishereby incorporated by reference. The information required by Item 10 withrespect to executive officers is set forth in Part I, Item 4A hereof.ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers,certain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtednessand other transactions set forth in the 1996 Proxy Statement (i) under thecaption "Board of Directors' Compensation" on pages 14 through 16 thereof, (ii)under the caption "Executive Compensation" on pages 16 through 18 thereof, (iii)under the caption "Retirement Plans" on pages 18 and 19 thereof, (iv) under thecaption "Deferred Compensation Plan" on pages 19 and 20 thereof, (v) under thecaption "Special Compensation Arrangements" on page 21 thereof, (vi) under thecaption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" on page 28thereof, and (vii) under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 28 and 29thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 402 ofRegulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-Krelating to persons who beneficially own more than 5% of the outstanding sharesof Common Stock or ESOP Preferred Stock, as well as security ownershipinformation relating to directors, nominees and named executive officersindividually and directors and executive officers as a group, is herebyincorporated by reference to the ownership information set forth under thecaption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" onpages 10 through 13 of the 1996 Proxy Statement.ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information with respect to relationships and related transactions betweenthe registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,security holder owning 5% or more of the registrant's voting securities or anymember of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forth in the 1996Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and InsiderParticipation" on page 28 and under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages28 and 29 thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item 404 ofRegulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference. 10   PART IVITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K a. The following documents are filed as part of this report: b. The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the registrant during the quarter ended December 31, 1995: Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed October 20, 1995, Items 5 and 7. (Two reports filed on that date.) Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed November 9, 1995, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed December 15, 1995, Items 5 and 7. c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-5, including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are identified separately by asterisk). With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated byreference, the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and the 1996 Proxy Statementare not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 11   SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Actof 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalfby the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. NATIONSBANK CORPORATIONDate: March 29, 1996 By: */s/ HUGH L. MCCOLL, JR. HUGH L. MCCOLL, JR. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, thisreport has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of theregistrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. II-1   II-2   INDEX TO EXHIBITS E-1   E-2   E-3   E-4   * Denotes executive compensation plan or arrangements. E-5   AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF NATIONSBANK CORPORATION  TABLE OF CONTENTS iv  ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS Section 1. Definitions. In these Bylaws, unless otherwise specificallyprovided: (a) "Act" means the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, as contained in Chapter 55 of the North Carolina General Statutes, as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended. (b) "Articles of Incorporation" means the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and restated from time to time, including any amendments or statements of classification adopted in connection with the Corporation's outstanding shares of preferred stock. (c) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Corporation. (d) "Corporation" means NationsBank Corporation, a North Carolina corporation, and any successor thereto. (e) "Principal office" means the office (in or out of the State of North Carolina) so designated in the Corporation's annual report filed pursuant to the Act where the principal executive offices of the Corporation are located. (f) "Public corporation" means any corporation that has a class of shares registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. ss.781). (g) "Shares" means the Common Stock and other units into which the proprietary interests in the Corporation are divided. (h) "Shareholder" means the person in whose name shares are registered in the records of the Corporation or the beneficial owner of shares to the extent of the rights granted by a nominee certificate on file with the Corporation.  (i) "Voting group" means all shares of one or more classes or series that under the Articles of Incorporation or the Act are entitled to vote and be counted together collectively on a matter at a meeting of shareholders. All shares entitled by the Articles of Incorporation or the Act to vote generally on a matter are for that purpose a single voting group. Section 2. Cross-Reference to the Act. If any term used in these Bylawsand not otherwise defined herein is defined for purposes of the Act, suchdefinition shall apply for purposes of these Bylaws, unless the context shallotherwise clearly require. ARTICLE II. OFFICES Section 1. Principal Office. The principal office of the Corporationshall be located in the City of Charlotte, County of Mecklenburg, State of NorthCarolina. Section 2. Other Offices. The Corporation may have offices at such otherplaces, either within or without the State of North Carolina, as the Board ofDirectors may from time to time determine or as the affairs of the Corporationmay require from time to time. Section 3. Registered Office. The registered office of the Corporationrequired by the Act to be maintained in the State of North Carolina may be, butneed not be, identical with the principal office of the Corporation, and theaddress of the registered office may be changed from time to time as provided inthe Act. ARTICLE III. SHAREHOLDERS Section 1. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the shareholders shallbe held during the month of April of each year at a date and an hour fixed bythe Board of Directors for the purpose of electing directors and for thetransaction of such other business as may come before the meeting. 2  Section 2. Substitute Annual Meeting. If the annual meeting shall not beheld within the period designated by these Bylaws, a substitute annual meetingmay be called in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this ArticleIII. A meeting so called shall be designated and treated for all purposes as theannual meeting. Section 3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the shareholders, forany purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by the Act, may be calledby the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or bythe Secretary acting under instructions of the Chairman of the Board or theChief Executive Officer, or by the Board of Directors. Section 4. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors or the Chairman ofthe Board, the Chief Executive Officer or President of the Corporation, or theSecretary acting under instructions of the Chairman of the Board, the ChiefExecutive Officer or President may designate any place, either within or withoutthe State of North Carolina, as the place of meeting for any annual meeting ofshareholders or for any special meeting of shareholders called by the Board ofDirectors or the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or Presidentor Secretary. If no designation is made, or if a special meeting of shareholdersis otherwise called, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of theCorporation in the State of North Carolina. Section 5. Notice of Meeting. Written or printed notice stating thedate, time and place of the meeting shall be delivered not less than 10 nor morethan 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, toeach shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, suchnotice shall be deemed to be effective when deposited in the United States mailwith postage thereon prepaid and correctly addressed to the shareholder at suchshareholder's address as shown in the Corporation's current record ofshareholders. In the case of an annual or substitute annual meeting, the notice ofmeeting need not specifically state the business to be transacted thereat unlessit is a matter, other than election of directors, on which the vote ofshareholders is expressly required by the provisions of the Act. In the case ofa special meeting, the notice of meeting shall state the purpose or purposes forwhich the meeting is called. If a meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the datefixed for the original meeting, or if a new record date is fixed for theadjourned meeting, or if the new date, time or place for an adjourned meeting isnot announced at the meeting before adjournment, notice of the adjourned meetingshall be given as in the case of an original meeting. Otherwise, it is 3 not necessary to give any notice of the adjourned meeting other than byannouncement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. Section 6. Fixing of Record Date. For the purpose of determiningshareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders orany adjournment thereof, or shareholders entitled to receive payment of anydividend or other distribution, or in order to make a determination ofshareholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors may fix inadvance a date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any caseto be not more than 60 days and, in case of a meeting of shareholders, not lessthan 10 days prior to the date on which the particular action, requiring suchdetermination of shareholders, is to be taken. If no record date is fixed forthe determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meetingof shareholders, or for determination of the shareholders entitled to receivepayment of a dividend or other distribution, the close of business on the daybefore the first notice is delivered to shareholders or the date on which theresolution of the Board of Directors declaring or authorizing such dividend ordistribution is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for suchdetermination. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at anymeeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this section, suchdetermination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the Board ofDirectors fixes a new record date, which it must do if the meeting is adjournedto a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting. Section 7. Shareholders List. After the record date for a meeting ofshareholders is fixed or determined, the officer or agent having charge of thestock transfer books for shares of the Corporation shall prepare an alphabeticallist of the names of all shareholders of the Corporation who are entitled tonotice of such shareholders meeting. The list will be arranged by voting group(and within each voting group by class or series of shares) and show the addressof and number of shares held by each shareholder. Such shareholders list will beavailable for inspection by any shareholder, beginning two business days afternotice of the meeting is given for which the list was prepared and continuingthrough the meeting, at the Corporation's principal office or at a placeidentified in the meeting notice in the city where the meeting will be held. Ashareholder, or a shareholder's agent or attorney, is entitled on written demandto inspect and, subject to compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act,to copy the list, during regular business hours and at the shareholder'sexpense, during the period it is available for inspection. Such list shall alsobe available at the meeting of shareholders, and any shareholder, or suchshareholder's agent or attorney, is entitled to inspect the list at any timeduring the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Section 8. Quorum. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on aparticular matter by a voting group constitutes a quorum of that voting group 4 for action on that matter unless the Act provides otherwise. Shares entitled tovote as a separate voting group may take action on a matter at a meeting ofshareholders only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to thatmatter, except that, in the absence of a quorum at the opening of any meeting ofshareholders, such meeting may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of amajority of the shares voting on the motion to adjourn. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it is deemedpresent for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for anyadjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for thatadjourned meeting. Section 9. Proxies. A shareholder may vote his or her shares in personor by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy to vote or otherwise act for theshareholder by signing an appointment form, either personally or by suchshareholder's attorney-in-fact. A telegram, telex, facsimile or other form ofwire or wireless communication appearing to have been transmitted by ashareholder, or a photocopy or equivalent reproduction of a writing appointingone or more proxies, shall be deemed a valid appointment form within the meaningof these Bylaws. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary orother officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes. An appointment is valid for11 months unless a different period is expressly provided in the appointmentform. An appointment of a proxy is revocable by the shareholder unless theappointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointmentis coupled with an interest, which may include any such interest specified inthe Act. Section 10. Voting of Shares. Each outstanding share of Common Stock isentitled to one vote on each matter voted on at a shareholders meeting. Othershares are entitled to vote only as provided in the Articles of Incorporation orthe Act. If a quorum exists, action on a matter (other than election ofdirectors) by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the votinggroup favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless theArticles of Incorporation or the Act requires a greater number of affirmativevotes. Classes or series of shares shall not be entitled to vote separately byvoting group unless expressly required by the Articles of Incorporation or asotherwise provided in the Act. Section 11. Voting for Directors. The directors of the Corporation shallbe elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote inthe election at a meeting at which a quorum is present unless otherwise providedin the Articles of Incorporation. The shareholders do not have a right tocumulate their votes for directors. 5  Section 12. Conduct of Meetings. The Chairman of the Board shall presideat each meeting of shareholders or, in the Chairman's absence, the ChiefExecutive Officer shall preside. At the request of the Chairman of the Board orthe Chief Executive Officer, in both their absences, such other officer as theBoard of Directors shall designate shall preside at any such meeting. In theabsence of a presiding officer determined in accordance with the precedingsentence, any person may be designated to preside at a shareholders meeting by aplurality vote of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting.The Secretary or, in the absence or at the request of the Secretary, any persondesignated by the person presiding at a shareholders meeting shall act assecretary of such meeting. Section 13. Inapplicability of the North Carolina Shareholder ProtectionAct and the North Carolina Control Share Acquisition Act. The provisions ofArticle 9 of Chapter 55 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, or such othersuccessor statute, entitled "The North Carolina Shareholder Protection Act,"shall not apply to the Corporation. The provisions of Article 9A of Chapter 55of the General Statutes of North Carolina, or such other successor statute,entitled "The North Carolina Control Share Acquisition Act," shall not apply tothe Corporation. ARTICLE IV. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Section 1. General Powers. All corporate powers shall be exercised by orunder the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall bemanaged under the direction of, its Board of Directors, except as otherwiseprovided in the Articles of Incorporation or permitted under the Act. Section 2. Number and Qualifications. The number of directors of theCorporation shall be not less than 5 nor more than 30, which number may be fixedor changed from time to time, within the minimum and maximum, by the Board ofDirectors. Directors need not be residents of the State of North Carolina orshareholders of the Corporation. A director of the Corporation shall at alltimes meet all statutory and regulatory qualifications for a director of apublicly held bank holding company. Section 3. Terms of Directors. The terms of all directors shall expireat the next annual shareholders meeting following their election. A decrease inthe number of directors does not shorten an incumbent director's term. The termof a director elected to fill a vacancy shall expire at the next shareholdersmeeting at which directors are elected. Despite the expiration of a director'sterm, however, such director shall continue to serve until the director'ssuccessor is elected and qualified. 6  Section 4. Removal. Any director may be removed at any time with orwithout cause by a vote of the shareholders if the number of votes cast toremove such director exceeds the number of votes cast not to remove him or herunless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation. A director may notbe removed by the shareholders at a meeting unless the notice of the meetingstates that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is removal ofthe director. If any directors are so removed, new directors may be elected atthe same meeting. Any director may be removed by the Board of Directors if a director nolonger meets the qualification requirements of Section 2 of this Article IV oras otherwise prescribed by law. Section 5. Vacancies. Except in those instances where the Articles ofIncorporation provide otherwise, the Board of Directors may fill a vacancy onthe Board of Directors. A vacancy that will occur at a specific later date (byreason of a resignation effective at a later date or otherwise) may be filledbefore the vacancy occurs, but the new director may not take office until thevacancy occurs. Section 6. Compensation. The Board of Directors may provide for thecompensation of directors for their services as such and may provide for thepayment or reimbursement of any or all expenses reasonably incurred by them inattending meetings of the Board or of any committee of the Board or in theperformance of their other duties as directors. Nothing herein contained,however, shall prevent any director from serving the Corporation in any othercapacity or receiving compensation therefor. Section 7. Executive Committee. The Board of Directors, by resolutionadopted by a majority of the number of directors fixed in the manner provided inSection 2 of this Article IV, may designate five or more directors who shallconstitute the Executive Committee of the Corporation. The Executive Committee,between meetings of the Board of Directors and subject to such limitations asmay be required by law or imposed by resolution of the Board of Directors, shallhave and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in themanagement of the Corporation. The designation of the Executive Committee andthe delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the Board ofDirectors, or any member thereof, of any responsibility or liability imposedupon it or such director by law. Meetings of the Executive Committee may be held at any time on call ofits Chairman or any two members of the Committee. A majority of the membersshall constitute a quorum at all meetings. The Executive Committee shall keepminutes of its proceedings and shall report its actions to the next succeedingmeeting of the Board of Directors. 7  Section 8. Compensation Committee. The Board of Directors, by resolutionadopted by a majority of the number of Directors fixed in the manner provided inSection 2 of this Article IV, may designate three or more directors who shallnot be otherwise employed by the Corporation or its subsidiaries who shallconstitute the Compensation Committee of the Corporation. The Compensation Committee shall provide overall guidance with respectto the establishment, maintenance and administration of the Corporation'scompensation programs and employee benefit plans. The Compensation Committee shall review and approve the annualcompensation, including salary, incentive compensation and other benefits,direct and indirect, for officers who serve as executive officers of theCorporation. The Compensation Committee shall also approve and adopt proposalsrelated to any employee benefit plan of the Corporation or its subsidiaries inwhich any officer participates who also serves as an executive officer of theCorporation, including proposals for the adoption, amendment, modification ortermination of such plans. As to the salary, incentive compensation and otherbenefits, direct and indirect, for the Chief Executive Officer of theCorporation and of all other officers of the Corporation who are also Directorsof the Corporation, the Compensation Committee shall submit recommendations tothe Executive Committee for review and concurrence prior to their submission tothe Board of Directors for approval. The Compensation Committee shall have such other purposes and such otherpowers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. Meetings of the Compensation Committee shall be held quarterly or at anytime on call of the Chairman of the Compensation Committee. A majority of themembers shall constitute a quorum at all meetings. The Compensation Committeeshall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report its actions in writing tothe next succeeding meeting of the Board of Directors. As used herein, the term "executive officer" means those officers of theCorporation who are designated as such from time to time. The Compensation Committee may in its discretion delegate to theManagement Compensation Committee any of its powers and authority set forth inthis Section 8 with respect to any executive officer of the Corporation who isnot a "named executive officer" of the Corporation within the meaning of Item402 of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 and theSecurities Exchange Act of 1934. 8  Section 9. Management Compensation Committee. The Board of Directors, byresolution adopted by a majority of the Directors fixed in the manner providedin Section 2 of this Article IV, may designate the Chief Executive Officer andsuch other officers as it deems appropriate to constitute the members of aManagement Compensation Committee. The Chief Executive Officer shall be theChairman of the Management Compensation Committee. The Management Compensation Committee shall have the authority toestablish the titles and the compensation, including salaries, incentivecompensation and other benefits, direct and indirect, for all employees of theCorporation and its subsidiaries who are not officers and for all officers ofthe Corporation and its subsidiaries who do not serve as executive officers ofthe Corporation. In connection with its duties, the Management CompensationCommittee shall approve all annual compensation budgets, all employee benefitsplans, the salary guidelines for positions and all incentive compensation plansfor such employees and officers of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Management Compensation Committee may delegate to one or moreofficers of the Corporation the authority to establish titles and thecompensation, including salaries, incentive compensation awards pursuant toincentive compensation plans previously approved by the Management CompensationCommittee, and other benefits for all personnel within such officer's area offunctional responsibility at the level of Senior Vice President or below. Anyaction taken by an officer to whom such authority has been delegated shall besubject to ratification by the Management Compensation Committee. The Management Compensation Committee shall make recommendations fromtime to time to the Compensation Committee regarding the establishment,amendment, modification and termination of any employee benefit plans sponsoredby the Corporation and its subsidiaries in which any officer of the Corporationor its subsidiaries participates who also serves as an executive officer of theCorporation. The Management Compensation Committee shall have such other purposes andsuch other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. Meetings of the Management Compensation Committee shall be heldquarterly or any time on call of the Chairman of the Management CompensationCommittee. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at all meetings.The Management Compensation Committee shall 9 keep minutes of its proceedings and shall report its actions to the CompensationCommittee. As used herein, the term "executive officer" means those officers of theCorporation who are designated as such from time to time. In accordance with Section 8, the Management Compensation Committee maybe delegated by the Compensation Committee certain of the powers and authorityof the Compensation Committee set forth in Section 8 with respect to anyexecutive officer of the Corporation who is not a "named executive officer" ofthe Corporation within the meaning of Item 402 of Regulation S-K promulgatedunder the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Section 10. Audit Committee. The Board of Directors, by resolutionadopted by a majority of the number of directors fixed in the manner provided inSection 2 of this Article IV, shall designate three or more directors who shallnot be otherwise employed by Corporation or its subsidiaries to constitute theAudit Committee of the Board. The Audit Committee shall have such powers and duties as described fromtime to time by resolutions of the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee shallkeep minutes of its proceedings and shall report its actions to the nextsucceeding meeting of the Board of Directors. Section 11. Other Committees. The Board of Directors may create one ormore other committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve onthem. Each committee must have two or more members, who serve at the pleasure ofthe Board of Directors. The creation of a committee and appointment of membersof the Board of Directors to it must be approved by the greater of a majority ofall of the directors in office when the action is taken or the number ofdirectors required by the Articles of Incorporation for the taking of action bythe Board of Directors. The provisions of the Act and these Bylaws that governmeetings, action without meetings, notice and waiver of notice, and quorum andvoting requirements of the Board of Directors, shall apply to committees andtheir members as well. To the extent specified by the Board of Directors, eachcommittee may exercise the authority of the Board of Directors, except as to thematters which the Act specifically excepts from the authority of suchcommittees. Nothing contained in this Section shall preclude the Board ofDirectors from establishing and appointing any committee, whether of directorsor otherwise, not having or exercising the authority of the Board of Directors. 10
