 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (X) Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1993 -- Commission File Number 1-6523 NATIONSBANK CORPORATION (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER) SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports requiredto be filed by Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during thepreceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements forthe past 90 days. Yes X NoIndicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to thebest of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statementsincorporated by reference in Part III of the Form 10-K or in any amendment tothis Form10-K. ( )Aggregate market value of shares of voting stock held by all persons, other than shares beneficially owned by persons who may be deemed to be affiliates (as defined by SEC Rule 405), is approximately $12,054,640,002 computed by reference to the closing price of Common Stock of $47.00 per share on March 15, 1994, on the Composite Tape, as reported in published financial sources, and a stated price of $42.50 for the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C. Of the registrant's only class of Common Stock there were 270,904,656 shares outstanding as of December 31, 1993. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   PART IITEM 1. BUSINESSGENERAL The registrant is a bank holding company registered under the Bank HoldingCompany Act of 1956, as amended (the "Act"), with its principal assets being thestock of its subsidiaries. Through its banking subsidiaries (the "Banks") andits various non-banking subsidiaries, the registrant provides banking andbanking-related services, primarily throughout the Southeast and Mid-Atlanticstates and Texas. The principal executive offices of the registrant are locatedat NationsBank Corporate Center in Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.ACQUISITIONS On February 18, 1994, the registrant, through NationsBank of Florida, N.A.and NationsBank of Georgia, N.A., entered into an agreement with CaliforniaSavings Bank, a Federal Savings Bank, to acquire for cash forty-three branches,including deposits, in Florida and one branch, including deposits, in Georgia ata purchase price of approximately $160 million. The registrant expects tocomplete the acquisition during the third quarter of 1994. On February 28, 1994, the registrant acquired by merger Corpus ChristiNational Bank ("CCNB") of Corpus Christi, Texas, which had assets at the closingdate of $687 million. The registrant acquired all the outstanding capital stockof CCNB by exchanging 2.5 shares of its Common Stock for each share of CCNBcommon stock outstanding, resulting in a total consideration of approximately$62 million. As a result, the registrant issued 2.6 million shares of CommonStock. Effective October 1, 1993, MNC Financial Inc. ("MNC"), a bank holdingcompany headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, with total assets of $16.5billion, was merged into the registrant pursuant to an Agreement and Plan ofConsolidation, dated July 16, 1992, as amended, between the registrant and MNC.Based on 90.8 million shares of MNC common stock outstanding on the closingdate, the purchase price for the common stock was approximately $1.39 billion.The registrant paid 50.1% of the purchase price with shares of its common stock(approximately 13.6 million shares), with cash paid in lieu of fractionalshares, and 49.9% in cash (approximately $687 million). On July 28, 1993, the registrant entered into an agreement with US WEST,Inc. and US WEST Financial Services, Inc., a corporate finance subsidiary of USWEST, Inc. ("USWFS"), to acquire from USWFS for cash, approximately $2.0 billionin net receivables as well as its ongoing business. Effective December 1, 1993,the registrant completed the asset acquisition and established Nations FinancialCapital Corporation. On July 2, 1993, the registrant, through NationsBank of North Carolina,N.A. completed its acquisition of substantially all the assets and certain ofthe liabilities of Chicago Research & Trading Group Ltd. ("CRT") and certain ofits subsidiaries. Total assets at the date of purchase were approximately $12billion and consisted primarily of trading account assets and securitiespurchased under agreements to resell. The options market-making and tradingportion of CRT became known as NationsBanc-CRT, and the primary governmentsecurities dealer portion became a part of NationsBanc Capital Markets, Inc. On June 7, 1993, the registrant's joint venture with Dean Witter, Discover& Co. to market and sell various investment products and services in selectedbanking centers commenced operations as NationsSecurities, a DeanWitter/NationsBank Company. In the past, the registrant has successfully completed numerous bank andbank holding company acquisitions. As part of its operations, the registrantregularly evaluates the potential acquisition of, and holds discussions with,various financial institutions and other businesses of a type eligible for bankholding company investment. In addition, the registrant regularly analyzes thevalues of, and submits bids for, the acquisition of customer-based funds andother liabilities and assets of failed financial institutions. As a generalrule, the registrant publicly announces such material acquisitions when adefinitive agreement has been reached.BANKING OPERATIONS The registrant, through its various subsidiaries, provides a diversifiedrange of financial services to its customers. These services include activitiesrelated to the banking business as provided through the following 1  customer groups. The General Bank Group's services include comprehensive servicein the commercial and retail banking fields; the origination and servicing ofhome mortgage loans; the issuance and servicing of credit cards;certain insurance services and private banking services. The Trust Group'sservices include trust and investment management services and mutual fundproducts. The Institutional Bank Group's services include comprehensive servicein the corporate and investment banking fields; trading in financial futuresthrough contractual arrangements with members of the various commoditiesexchanges, options market making and trading; and arranging and structuringmergers, acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, private debt placements, internationalfinancings and venture capital. The Institutional Bank Group also providesinternational operations through branches, merchant banks or representativeoffices located in London, Frankfurt, Singapore, Mexico City, Grand Cayman andNassau, including the traditional services of paying and receiving,international collections, bankers' acceptances, letters of credit and foreignexchange services, as well as specialized international services, such astax-based leasing, export financing of certain capital goods and raw materialsand capital market services, to its corporate customers. The Secured LendingGroup's services include real estate lending; commercial finance and factoring;and leasing and financing a wide variety of commercial equipment. The registrantroutinely analyzes its lines of business and from time to time may increase,decrease or terminate one or more of its activities as a result of suchevaluation. The following table indicates for each jurisdiction in which the registranthas banking operations its total banking assets, deposits and shareholder'sequity and approximate number of banking offices, all as of December 31, 1993: (1) This subsidiary is engaged primarily in the business of issuing and servicing credit cards. In addition to the banking offices located in the above states, the variousBanks have loan production offices located in New York City, Chicago, LosAngeles, Denver and Birmingham. The Banks also provide fully automated, 24-hourcash dispensing and depositing services throughout the states in which they arelocated. The Banks have automated teller machines (ATMs) which are linked to thePLUS, CIRRUS, VISA, MASTERCARD, and Armed Forces Financial Network (AFFN) ATMnetworks. ATMs in the Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic states are linked to HONOR(a regional network). ATMs in Texas are linked to the PULSE network (a regionalnetwork throughout the Southwest). ATMs in the Mid-Atlantic states also arelinked to MOST (a regional network operating only in the Mid-Atlantic states).NON-BANKING OPERATIONS The registrant conducts its non-banking operations through severalsubsidiaries. NationsCredit Corporation and several other subsidiaries engage inconsumer credit activities. Nations Financial Capital Corporation engages incorporate finance activities. NationsBanc Mortgage Corporation originates andservices loans for the Banks as well as for other investors. NationsBancCommercial Corporation and an additional subsidiary provide services related tothe factoring of accounts receivable. NationsBanc Leasing Corporation andseveral additional subsidiaries engage in equipment and leveraged leasingactivities. NationsSecurities, a Dean Witter/NationsBank Company, provides fullservice retail brokerage services. NationsBanc Discount Brokerage, Inc. conductsdiscount brokerage activities. 2   In addition, NationsBanc Capital Markets, Inc. ("NCMI"), NationsBank'sinstitutional securities subsidiary, underwrites and deals in bank-eligiblesecurities (generally U.S. government and government agency securities, certainmunicipal securities, primarily municipal general obligation securities, andcertain certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances and money marketinstruments) and, to a limited extent, certain bank-ineligible securities,including corporate debt, as authorized by the Federal Reserve Board underSection 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act. Through NCMI's securities underwritingauthority, NationsBank provides corporate and institutional customers a broadrange of debt-related financial services.GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION GENERAL As a registered bank holding company, the registrant is subject to thesupervision of, and to regular inspection by, the Federal Reserve Board. Theregistrant's banking subsidiaries are organized as national bankingassociations, which are subject to regulation, supervision and examination bythe Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "Comptroller"). The variousbanking subsidiaries also are subject to regulation by the FDIC and otherfederal bank regulatory bodies. In addition to banking laws, regulations andregulatory agencies, the registrant and its subsidiaries and affiliates aresubject to various other laws and regulations and supervison and examination byother regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect theregistrant's operations, manangement and ability to make distributions. The following discussion summarizes certain aspects of those laws andregulations that affect the registrant. Proposals to change the laws andregulations governing the banking industry are frequently introduced inCongress, in the state legislatures and before the various bank regulatoryagencies. For example, Federal interstate bank acquisitions and branchinglegislation currently is being considered by Congress which, if enacted, wouldpermit nationwide interstate branching by the registrant. In addition, otherstates including Georgia, North Carolina and Virginia recently revised theirbanking statutes to facilitate interstate banking in other states that havesimilar statutes regarding interstate banking. Other states in which theregistrant has banking operations are considering similar legislation. However,the likelihood and timing of any changes and the impact such changes might haveon the registrant and its subsidiaries are difficult to determine. Under the Act, the registrant's activities, and those of companies which itcontrols or in which it holds more than 5% of the voting stock, are limited tobanking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or performingservices for its subsidiaries, or any other activity which the Federal ReserveBoard determines to be so closely related to banking or managing or controllingbanks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making such determinations, theFederal Reserve Board is required to consider whether the performance of suchactivities by a bank holding company or its subsidiaries can reasonably beexpected to produce benefits to the public such as greater convenience,increased competition or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible adverseeffects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfaircompetition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices. Bank holding companies, such as the registrant, are required to obtainprior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to engage in any new activity or toacquire more than 5% of any class of voting stock of any company. The Act also requires bank holding companies to obtain the prior approvalof the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring more than 5% of any class ofvoting shares of any bank which is not already majority-owned. No application toacquire shares of a bank located outside of North Carolina, the state in whichthe operations of the applicant's banking subsidiaries were principallyconducted on the date it became subject to the Act, may be approved by theFederal Reserve Board unless such acquisition is specifically authorized by thelaws of the state in which the bank whose shares are to be acquired is located. DISTRIBUTIONS The registrant's funds for cash distributions to its shareholders arederived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. Theprimary source of such funds, however, is dividends received from its bankingsubsidiaries. Without prior regulatory approval the Banks can initiate dividendpayments in 1993 of up to $1.4 billion plus an additional amount equal to theirnet profits for 1994, as defined by statute, up to the date of any such dividenddeclaration. The amount of dividends that each subsidiary national bank 3  may declare in a calendar year without approval of the Comptroller is the bank'snet profits for that year combined with its net retained profits, as defined,for the preceding two years. In addition to the foregoing, the ability of the registrant and the Banksto pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital requirements andthe capital and non-capital standards to be established under the FederalDeposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") as describedbelow. Furthermore, the Comptroller may prohibit the payment of a dividend by anational bank if it determines that such payment would constitute an unsafe orunsound practice. The right of the registrant, its shareholders and itscreditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of itssubsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of therespective subsidiaries. DEPOSIT INSURANCE The deposits of each of the Banks are insured up to applicable limits bythe FDIC. Accordingly, the Banks are subject to deposit insurance assessments tomaintain the Bank Insurance Fund (the "BIF") of the FDIC. As mandated by FDICIA,the FDIC has adopted regulations effective January 1, 1993, for the transitionfrom a flat-rate insurance assessment system to a risk-based system by January1, 1994. Pursuant to these regulations, a financial institution's depositinsurance assessment will be within a range of 0.23 percent to 0.31 percent ofits qualifying deposits, depending on the institution's risk classification. Theassessment for the registrant's banks is estimated to average 25.2 cents per$100 of eligible deposits in 1994. SOURCE OF STRENGTH According to Federal Reserve Board policy, bank holding companies areexpected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and tocommit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be requiredat times when a bank holding company may not be able to provide such support. Inthe event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC -- either as a result ofdefault of a banking subsidiary of the registrant or related to FDIC assistanceprovided to a subsidiary in danger of default -- the other banking subsidiariesof the registrant may be assessed for the FDIC's loss, subject to certainexceptions. CAPITAL AND OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES The narrative comments under the caption "Capital" (page 48) set forth inthe accompanying 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders of the registrant are herebyincorporated by reference. The Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelinesdefine a two-tier capital framework. Tier 1 capital consists of common andqualifying preferred shareholders' equity, less certain intangibles and otheradjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of subordinated and other qualifying debt,and the allowance for credit losses up to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets.The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital less investments in unconsolidatedsubsidiaries represents qualifying total capital, at least 50 percent of whichmust consist of Tier 1 capital. Risk-based capital ratios are calculated bydividing Tier 1 and total capital by risk-weighted assets. Assets andoff-balance sheet exposures are assigned to one of four categories ofrisk-weights, based primarily on relative credit risk. The minimum Tier 1capital ratio is 4 percent and the minimum total capital ratio is 8 percent. Theregistrant's Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios under these guidelinesat December 31, 1993 were 7.41 percent and 11.73 percent, respectively. The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjustedtotal assets. Although the stated minimum ratio is 3 percent, most bankingorganizations are required to maintain ratios of at least 100 to 200 basispoints above 3 percent. The registrant's leverage ratio at December 31, 1993 was6.00 percent. FDICIA identifies the five capital categories for insured depositoryinstitutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized,significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) and requires therespective Federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for "promptcorrective action" for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimumcapital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively morerestrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions,depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meetthe capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capitalraising requirements. An "undercapitalized" bank must develop a capitalrestoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank'scompliance with the plan. The liability of the parent holding company under anysuch guarantee is limited to the lesser of 5 percent of the bank's assets at thetime it became "undercapitalized" or the amount needed to comply with the 4  plan. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company,such guarantee would take priority over the parent's general unsecuredcreditors. In addition, FDICIA required the various regulatory agencies toprescribe certain non-capital standards for safety and soundness relatinggenerally to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensationand permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meetsuch standards. The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similarregulations that define the five capital categories identified by FDICIA, usingthe total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capitalratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish variousdegrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is consideredundercapitalized. Under the regulations, a "well capitalized" institution musthave a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6 percent, a total capital ratio of atleast 10 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 5 percent and not be subjectto a capital directive order. An "adequately capitalized" institution must havea Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 4 percent, a total capital ratio of at least8 percent and a leverage ratio of at least 4 percent, or 3 percent in somecases. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks is adequately or wellcapitalized.ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The following information set forth in the accompanying 1993 Annual Reportto Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: Table 3 (pages 28 and 29) for average balance sheet amounts, related taxable equivalent interest earned or paid, and related average yields earned and rates paid. Tables 3 (pages 28 and 29) and 5 (page 31) and the narrative comments under the caption "Net Interest Income" (pages 30 and 32) for changes in taxable equivalent interest income and expense for each major category of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability. Tables 9 and 10 (pages 36 and 37, respectively) and the narrative comments under the caption "Securities" (pages 36 through 38) for information on the book values, maturities and weighted average yields of the securities (by category) of the registrant; and Note 5 (pages 66 and 67) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Tables 19 (page 45), 21 (page 47) and 22 (page 48) for distribution of loans and leases, interest-rate risk and selected loan maturity data. Table 16 (page 43), the narrative comments under the caption "Nonperforming Assets" (pages 41 and 43), and Note 1 (pages 62 to 63) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the nonperforming assets of the registrant. The narrative comments under the captions "Concentrations of Credit Risk" (pages 43 to 45) and "Loans and Leases" (page 38) for a discussion of the characteristics of the loan portfolio. Tables 14 (page 41) and 15 (page 42), the narrative comments under the caption "Provision for Credit Losses" (pages 32 and 33), "Allowance for Credit Losses" (pages 40 and 41) and Note 1 (page 62) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the credit loss experience of the registrant. Tables 11 and 12 (pages 38 and 39, respectively) and the narrative comments under the caption "Sources of Funds" (pages 38 to 39) and Note 8 (page 68) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for deposit information. "Six-Year Consolidated Statistical Summary" (page 79) for return on assets, return on equity and dividend payout ratio for 1988 through 1993, inclusive. Table 13 (page 40) and Note 9 (pages 69 and 70) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the short-term borrowings of the registrant. All tables, graphs, charts, summaries and narrative on pages 1, 25 through 55, and 78 through 79 for additional data on the consolidated operations of NationsBank Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries. 5  COMPETITION The activities in which the registrant, its non-banking subsidiaries andthe Banks engage are highly competitive. Generally, the lines of activity andmarkets served involve competition with other banks and non-bank financialinstitutions, as well as other entities which offer financial services, locatedboth within and without the United States. The methods of competition centeraround various factors, such as customer services, interest rates on loans anddeposits, lending limits and location of offices. The commercial banking business in the various local markets served by thevarious non-banking subsidiaries and the various Banks is highly competitive,and the non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks compete with other commercialbanks, savings and loan associations and other businesses which provide similarservices. The non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks actively compete incommercial lending activities with local, regional and international banks andnon-bank financial organizations, some of which are larger than certain of thenon-banking subsidiaries and the Banks. In its consumer lending operations, thenon-banking subsidiaries and the Banks' competitors include other banks, savingsand loan associations, credit unions, regulated small loan companies and othernon-bank organizations offering financial services. In the trust business, theBanks compete with other banks, investment counselors and insurance companies innational markets for institutional funds and corporate pension and profitsharing accounts. The Banks also compete with other banks, insurance agents,financial counselors and other fiduciaries for personal trust business. Thenon-banking subsidiaries and the Banks also actively compete for funds. Aprimary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for depositsincludes other deposit taking organizations, such as commercial banks, savingsand loan associations and credit unions, and so-called "money market" mutualfunds. The non-banking subsidiaries and the Banks also actively compete forfunds in the open market. The registrant's ability to expand into additional states remains subjectto various federal and state laws. See "Government Supervision andRegulation -- General" for a more detailed discussion of interstate branchinglegislation and certain state legislation.EMPLOYEES At December 31, 1993, the registrant and its subsidiaries had 57,463 fulltime equivalent employees. Of the foregoing employees, 1,341 were employed bythe registrant holding company, 5,832 were employed by the North Carolinasubsidiary bank, 7,094 were employed by the Texas subsidiary bank, 5,080 wereemployed by the Florida subsidiary bank, 2,417 were employed by the SouthCarolina subsidiary bank, 5,897 were employed by the Virginia subsidiary bank,3,712 were employed by the Georgia subsidiary bank, 1,595 were employed by theTennessee subsidiary bank, 5,989 were employed by the Maryland subsidiary banks,10,268 were employed by NationsBanc Services, Inc. (a subsidiary providingoperational support services to the registrant and its subsidiaries) and theremainder were employed by the registrant's other banking and operatingsubsidiaries.ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Construction was completed in 1992 on the 60-story NationsBank CorporateCenter in Charlotte, North Carolina owned by the registrant through subsidiarieswho are partners in NationsBanc Corporate Center Associates. NationsBankoccupies approximately 475,000 square feet at market rates under a lease whichexpires in 2002, and approximately 630,000 square feet of office space isavailable for lease to third parties at market rates. At year end, approximately95 percent was occupied by the registrant or subject to existing third partyleases or letters of intention to lease. The principal offices of NationsBank of North Carolina, N.A. ("NationsBankNorth Carolina") are located in leased space in the 40-story NationsBank Towerlocated at NationsBank Plaza, Charlotte, North Carolina. NationsBank NorthCarolina is the major tenant of the building with approximately 588,000 squarefeet of the net rentable space, of which approximately 456,000 square feet ofspace is under a lease which expires in 2009 and the remaining space is underleases of shorter duration. The principal offices of NationsBank of Texas, N.A. ("NationsBank Texas")are located in approximately 667,000 square feet of leased space in the 72-storyNationsBank Plaza in Dallas. NationsBank Texas is the major tenant of thebuilding under a lease which expires in 2001 with renewal options through 2011. 6   The principal offices of NationsBank of Florida, N.A. ("NationsBankFlorida") are located in approximately 304,000 square feet of leased space inthe NationsBank Plaza in downtown Tampa, Florida. The lease is on a staggeredschedule such that the upper floors expire in 1996 while the lower floors andbranch bank expire in 2000. NationsBank Florida has four five-year renewaloptions on this space. The principal offices of NationsBank of Virginia, N.A. ("NationsBankVirginia") are located in approximately 470,000 square feet of space inNationsBank Center in Richmond, Virginia, a facility that is owned byNationsBank Virginia. The principal offices of NationsBank of Georgia, N.A. ("NationsBankGeorgia") are located in leased space in the new 55-story NationsBank Plaza inAtlanta, Georgia which was completed in 1992. The registrant, through asubsidiary, is a partner in CSC Associates, L.P., a partnership that was formedwith Cousins Properties Incorporated for the development and ownership of theoffice tower. NationsBank Georgia is the major tenant of the building withapproximately 566,000 square feet of the net rentable space, under a lease thatexpires in 2012. NationsBank Georgia has three ten-year renewal options on thisspace. Of the approximately 668,000 remaining square feet, 417,000 square feethas been leased to third parties with 251,000 remaining square feet availablefor lease to third parties at market rates. The principal offices of NationsBank of South Carolina, N.A. ("NationsBankSouth Carolina") are located in approximately 90,921 square feet of leased spacein the NationsBank Tower in Columbia, South Carolina, under a lease whichexpires in 1995. NationsBank South Carolina, through subsidiaries, ownspartnership interests in the tower and the underlying land. In addition,NationsBank South Carolina maintains offices in approximately 81,666 square feetof leased space in NationsBank Plaza in Columbia under a lease that expires in1999. NationsBank South Carolina has four five-year renewal options. The principal offices of NationsBank of Maryland, N.A. ("NationsBankMaryland") are located in approximately 142,000 square feet of leased space inthe Rockledge Executive Center in Bethesda, Maryland under a lease that expiresin 2002. NationsBank Maryland has two five-year renewal options on this space.The principal offices of Maryland National Bank are located in approximately232,000 square feet of space in Baltimore, Maryland in a facility that is ownedby Maryland National Bank. The principal offices of NationsBank of Tennessee, N.A. ("NationsBankTennessee") are located in approximately 191,000 square feet of leased space inOne Sovran Plaza in Nashville, Tennessee under a lease that expires in 2012.NationsBank Tennessee has two ten-year and one five-year renewal options on thisspace. The principal offices of NationsCredit are located in approximately 136,000square feet of space in Allentown, Pennsylvania in a facility that is owned byNationsCredit. In addition, NationsCredit has approximately 287 leased premisesaround the country. The principal offices of Nations Financial Capital Corporation are locatedin approximately 42,880 square feet of leased space in Canterbury Green inStamford, Connecticut, under a lease which expires in 1997. Nations FinancialCapital Corporation, through subsidiaries or branch offices, leases space in thefollowing states: Alabama, Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Louisiana,Maryland, Mississippi, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas andWashington. 7   As of December 31, 1993, the registrant and its subsidiaries conductedtheir banking and bank-related activities in both leased and owned facilitiesthroughout the jurisdictions in which the Banks are located, as follows: ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The registrant and its subsidiaries are defendants in or parties to anumber of pending and threatened legal actions and proceedings. Managementbelieves, based upon the opinion of counsel, that the actions and liability andloss, if any, resulting from the final outcome of these proceedings, will not bematerial in the aggregate.ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS There were no matters submitted to security holders in the fourth quarterof the registrant's fiscal year. PART IIITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS The principal market on which the registrant's Common Stock (the "CommonStock") is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The registrant also listedcertain of its shares of Common Stock for trading on the Pacific Stock Exchangeand on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The high and low sales prices of Common Stockon the Composite Tape, as reported in published financial sources, for eachquarterly period indicated below are as follows: As of December 31, 1993, there were 108,435 record holders of Common Stock.During 1992 and 1993, the registrant paid dividends on a quarterly basis, whichaggregated $1.51 per share in 1992 and $1.64 per share in 1993. The tenth paragraph of Note 9 (page 70) and Note 12 (page 71) of the Notesto Consolidated Financial Statements in the registrant's accompanying 1993Annual Report to Shareholders are hereby incorporated by reference. See also"Government Supervision and Regulation -- Distributions." 8  ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The information set forth in Table 1 (page 25) in the registrant'saccompanying 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders is hereby incorporated byreference.ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All of the information set forth under the captions "Management'sDiscussion and Analysis -- 1993 Compared to 1992" (pages 25 through 50),"Management's Discussion and Analysis -- 1992 Compared to 1991" (pages 50, 51,54 and 55), "Report of Management" (page 56) and all tables, graphs and chartspresented under the foregoing captions, in the 1993 Annual Report toShareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference.ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The following information set forth in the accompanying 1993 Annual Reportto Shareholders of the registrant is hereby incorporated by reference: The Consolidated Financial Statements of NationsBank Corporation andSubsidiaries together with the report thereon of Price Waterhouse dated January14, 1994 (pages 57 through 61); all Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements(pages 62 through 77); the unaudited information presented in Table 24 (page51); and the narrative comments under the caption "Fourth Quarter Review" (page50).ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on accountingand financial disclosure as defined by Item 304 of Regulation S-K. PART IIIITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information set forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 3through 12 of the definitive 1994 Proxy Statement of the registrant furnished toshareholders in connection with its Annual Meeting to be held on April 27, 1994(the "1994 Proxy Statement") with respect to the name of each nominee ordirector, that person's age, that person's positions and offices with theregistrant, that person's business experience, that person's directorships inother public companies, that person's service on the registrant's Board andcertain of that person's family relationships and information set forth in thefirst paragraph on page 15 of the 1994 Proxy Statement with respect to Section16 matters is hereby incorporated by reference.CERTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Pursuant to Instructions to Form 10-K and Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K,the name, age and position of each person who presently may be deemed to be anexecutive officer of the registrant are listed below along with such person'sbusiness experience during the past five years. Officers are appointed annuallyby the Board of Directors at the meeting of directors immediately following theannual meeting of shareholders. There are no arrangements or understandingsbetween any officer and any other person pursuant to which the officer wasselected. Fredric J. Figge, II, age 57, Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of theregistrant. Mr. Figge was named Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy in October, 1993and prior to that time served as Chairman, Credit Policy of the registrant andof the Banks. He first became an officer of the registrant in September, 1987.He also serves as Chairman, Corporate Risk Policy of the Banks and as directorof various subsidiaries of the registrant. James H. Hance, Jr., age 49, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer ofthe registrant. Mr. Hance was named Chief Financial Officer in August, 1988,also served as Executive Vice President from March, 1987 to December 31, 1991and was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993. He first became an officer of theregistrant in 1987. He also serves as a director of Maryland National Bank,NationsBank of D.C., N.A., NationsBank Maryland, NationsBank Tennessee andvarious other subsidiaries of the registrant. 9   Kenneth D. Lewis, age 46, President of the registrant. Mr. Lewis was namedto his present position in October, 1993. Prior to that time, from June, 1990 toOctober, 1993 he served as President of the registrant's General Bank and fromAugust, 1988 to June, 1990, he served as President of NationsBank Texas. Hefirst became an officer in 1971. Mr. Lewis also serves as a director ofNationsBank Florida, NationsBank Georgia, NationsBank South Carolina andNationsBank Texas. Hugh L. McColl, Jr., age 58, Chairman of the Board and Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the registrant. He first became an officer in 1962. Mr. McColl wasChairman of the registrant from September, 1983 until effectiveness of themerger of C&S/Sovran on December 31, 1991, and was re-appointed Chairman onDecember 31, 1992. He also serves as a director of the registrant and as ChiefExecutive Officer of the Banks. Marc D. Oken, age 47, Executive Vice President and Principal AccountingOfficer of the registrant. Mr. Oken was named to his present position in July,1989, and from 1983 to 1989 served as an Audit Partner with Price Waterhouse. Hefirst became an officer in 1989. James W. Thompson, age 54, Vice Chairman of the registrant and Chairman ofNationsBank East. Mr. Thompson was named Vice Chairman in October, 1993, and asChairman of NationsBank East upon effectiveness of the merger of C&S/Sovran onDecember 31, 1991. He first became an officer of NationsBank North Carolina inMay, 1963. He also serves as chairman of the board of directors of MarylandNational Bank, NationsBank North Carolina, NationsBank of D.C., N.A.,NationsBank Maryland, NationsBank South Carolina and NationsBank Virginia.ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Information with respect to current remuneration of executive officers,certain proposed remuneration to them, their options and certain indebtednessand other transactions set forth in the 1994 Proxy Statement (i) under thecaption "Board of Directors' Compensation" on page 17 thereof, (ii) under thecaption "Executive Compensation" on pages 18 and 19 thereof, (iii) under thecaption "Retirement Plans" on pages 19 and 20 thereof, (iv) under the caption"Deferred Compensation Plan" on pages 20 and 21 thereof, (v) under the caption"Benefit Security Trust" on page 21 thereof, (vi) under the caption "StockOptions" on page 22 thereof, and (vii) under the caption "Certain Transactions"on pages 31 through the first paragraph on page 34 thereof, is, to the extentsuch information is required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K, hereby incorporatedby reference.ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT The security ownership information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-Kand relating to persons who beneficially own more than 5% of the outstandingshares of Common Stock or ESOP Preferred Stock is hereby incorporated byreference to the second full paragraph on page 3 of the 1994 Proxy Statement.Such required ownership information relating to directors, nominees and namedexecutive officers individually and directors and executive officers as a groupis hereby incorporated by reference to the Equity Securities ownershipinformation set forth on pages 13 through 15 of the 1994 Proxy Statement.ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS Information with respect to relationships and related transactions betweenthe registrant and any director, nominee for director, executive officer,security holder owning 5% or more of the registrant's voting securities or anymember of the immediate family of any of the above, as set forth in the 1994Proxy Statement under the caption "Compensation Committee Interlocks and InsiderParticipation" beginning with the second full paragraph on page 29 through page30 and under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 31 through the firstparagraph on 34 thereof, is, to the extent such information is required by Item404 of Regulation S-K, hereby incorporated by reference. 10   PART IVITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K a. The following documents are filed as part of this report: b. The following reports on Form 8-K have been filed by the registrant during the quarter ended December 31, 1993: Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed October 8, 1993, Items 2 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed October 18, 1993, Items 5 and 7. Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed October 29, 1993, Items 5 and 7. Form 8-K/A Amendment No. 1 to Form 8-K dated and filed November 10, 1993, Item 7. c. The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-7, including executive compensation plans and arrangements which are identified separately by asterisk). With the exception of the information herein expressly incorporated byreference, the 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and the 1994 Proxy Statementof the registrant are not to be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report onForm 10-K. 11 
