 remains in effect. Within thirty (30) days of each such premium payment by the Corporation during the six (6) year period following the effective date of the Policy and within thirty (30) days of each anniversary of the effective date of the Policy thereafter, the Owner shall pay to the Corporation the economic value of the death benefit under the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. A schedule of the premiums to be paid by the Owner based on the Insurer's current rates is set forth on Exhibit 2B." ---------- 2. The last sentence of Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "If the Owner does not repay the entire amount of the Corporation's Interest in the Policy within such sixty (60) day time period, the Corporation may enforce its rights under the Collateral Assignment and, upon exercise of the Corporation's rights under the Collateral Assignment, the Owner shall be liable for any deficiency realized by the Corporation." 3. Exhibit 2A attached to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its ----------entirety and replaced by Exhibit 2B attached hereto and all references in the ----------Agreement to "Exhibit 2" or "Exhibit 2A" shall hereby refer to Exhibit 2B. --------- ---------- ---------- 4. Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby,the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on January24, 2002.BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.By: /s/ J. Steele Alphin Trustee under the Irrevocable Trust ---------------------------- J. Steele Alphin Agreement dated October 2, 1998 Corporate Personnel Executive By: /s/ John T. McElroy --------------------------------- "Corporation" Name: John T. McElroy ------------------------------ Title: Assistant Vice President ------------------------------ "Owner" 2  Exhibit 10(o) AMENDMENT AGREEMENT THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made and entered into byand between BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the"Corporation"), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. (formerly "NationsBank, N.A."),as Trustee under that certain Irrevocable Trust Agreement No. 2 established byJames H. Hance, Jr., as Grantor, dated October 1, 1988 (the "Owner"). Statement of Purpose -------------------- James H. Hance, Jr. (the "Executive") is employed by the Corporation asits Chief Financial Officer. The Corporation and the Owner have previouslyentered into a Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement (the "Agreement")pursuant to which the parties have insured the lives of the Executive and theExecutive's spouse, Beverly S. Hance, for the benefit and protection of boththe Corporation and the Executive's family under a Last Survivor FlexiblePremium Variable Life Insurance Policy issued by Pacific Life Insurance Co. TheInternal Revenue Service, in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2002-08, hasproposed a change in the manner in which split dollar insurance arrangementswill be taxed for federal income tax purposes effective as of January 1, 2004.However, split dollar insurance arrangements entered into before January 28,2002 will be eligible for certain "grandfathered" treatment with respect tosuch change. The parties desire to amend the Agreement in order to allow theAgreement to qualify under the "grandfathering" provisions of InternalRevenue Service Notice 2002-08 and to preserve the economic benefits which werecontemplated to be delivered pursuant to the Agreement at the time theAgreement was originally executed. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing statement of purpose theparties hereto agree as follows: 1. The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "4. Payment of Premiums. As a convenience to the parties, the ------------------- Corporation shall pay all premiums under the Policy to the Insurer as and when such premiums become due. During the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay the full amount of the premiums to the Insurer as set forth on Exhibit 2A attached ---------- hereto. Beginning in  the sixteenth (16th) year of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay premiums under the Policy to the Insurer equal to the economic value of the death benefit under the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. Within thirty (30) days of each such premium payment by the Corporation during the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy and within thirty (30) days of each anniversary of the effective date of the Policy thereafter, the Owner shall pay to the Corporation the economic value of the death benefit under the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. A schedule of the premiums to be paid by the Owner based on the Insurer's current rates is set forth on Exhibit ------- 2A." -- 2. The last sentence of Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "If the Owner does not repay the entire amount of the Corporation's Interest in the Policy within such sixty (60) day time period, the Corporation may enforce its rights under the Collateral Assignment and, upon exercise of the Corporation's rights under the Collateral Assignment, the Owner shall be liable for any deficiency realized by the Corporation." 3. Exhibit 2 attached to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its --------entirety and replaced by Exhibit 2A attached hereto and all references in the ----------Agreement to "Exhibit 2" shall hereby refer to Exhibit 2A. --------- ---------- 4. Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby, theAgreement shall continue in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on January24, 2002.BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.By: /s/J. Steele Alphin Trustee under the Irrevocable Trust ------------------------------ J. Steele Alphin Agreement No. 2 dated October 1, 1998 Corporate Personnel Executive By: /s/ John T. McElroy ---------------------------------- "Corporation" Name: John T. McElroy -------------------------------- Title: Assistant Vice President --------------------------------- "Owner" 2  Exhibit 10(p) AMENDMENT AGREEMENT THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made and entered into byand between BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the"Corporation"), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as successor Trustee under thatcertain Irrevocable Trust Agreement established by Kenneth D. Lewis, asGrantor, dated June 23, 1998 (the "Owner"). Statement of Purpose -------------------- Kenneth D. Lewis (the "Executive") is employed by the Corporation asits Chief Executive Officer. The Corporation and the Owner have previouslyentered into a Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement (the "Agreement") pursuantto which the parties have insured the lives of the Executive and theExecutive's spouse, Donna C. Lewis, for the benefit and protection of both theCorporation and the Executive's family under a Variable Survivorship LifeInsurance Policy issued by John Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company. TheInternal Revenue Service, in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2002-08, hasproposed a change in the manner in which split dollar insurance arrangementswill be taxed for federal income tax purposes effective as of January 1, 2004.However, split dollar insurance arrangements entered into before January 28,2002 will be eligible for certain "grandfathered" treatment with respect tosuch change. The parties desire to amend the Agreement in order to allow theAgreement to qualify under the "grandfathering" provisions of Internal RevenueService Notice 2002-08 and to preserve the economic benefits which werecontemplated to be delivered pursuant to the Agreement at the time theAgreement was originally executed. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing statement of purposethe parties hereto agree as follows: 1. The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Agreement is herebyamended to read as follows: "4. Payment of Premiums. As a convenience to the parties, the ------------------- Corporation shall pay all premiums under the Policy to the Insurer as and when such premiums become due. During the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay the full amount of the premiums to the Insurer as set forth on Exhibit 2B attached ---------- hereto. Beginning in the sixteenth (16th) year of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay premiums under the Policy to the Insurer equal to the economic value of the death benefit under  the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. Within thirty (30) days of each such premium payment by the Corporation during the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy and within thirty (30) days of each anniversary of the effective date of the Policy thereafter, the Owner shall pay to the Corporation the economic value of the death benefit under the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. A schedule of the premiums to be paid by the Owner based on the Insurer's current rates is set forth on Exhibit 2B." ---------- 2. The last sentence of Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "If the Owner does not repay the entire amount of the Corporation's Interest in the Policy within such sixty (60) day time period, the Corporation may enforce its rights under the Collateral Assignment and, upon exercise of the Corporation's rights under the Collateral Assignment, the Owner shall be liable for any deficiency realized by the Corporation." 3. Exhibit 2A attached to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its ----------entirety and replaced by Exhibit 2B attached hereto and all references in the ----------Agreement to "Exhibit 2" or "Exhibit 2A" shall hereby refer to Exhibit 2B. --------- ---------- ---------- 4. Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby, theAgreement shall continue in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on January24, 2002.BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.By: /s/ J. Steele Alphin Trustee under the Irrevocable Trust ------------------------------ Agreement dated June 23, 1998 J. Steele Alphin Corporate Personnel Executive By: /s/ John T. McElroy -------------------------------- "Corporation" Name: John T. McElroy ------------------------------ Title: Assistant Vice President ----------------------------- "Owner" 2  Exhibit 10(s) AMENDMENT AGREEMENT THIS AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made and entered into byand between BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the"Corporation"), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Trustee under The Vandiver FamilyTrust dated August 12, 1999 (the "Owner"). Statement of Purpose -------------------- F. William Vandiver, Jr. (the "Executive") is employed by theCorporation as its Corporate Risk Management Executive. The Corporation and theOwner have previously entered into a Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement (the"Agreement") pursuant to which the parties have insured the lives of theExecutive and the Executive's spouse, Virginia Rita Eldridge Vandiver, for thebenefit and protection of both the Corporation and the Executive's family undera Variable Survivorship Life Insurance Policy issued by John Hancock VariableLife Insurance Company. The Internal Revenue Service, in Internal RevenueService Notice 2002-08, has proposed a change in the manner in which splitdollar insurance arrangements will be taxed for federal income tax purposeseffective as of January 1, 2004. However, split dollar insurance arrangementsentered into before January 28, 2002 will be eligible for certain"grandfathered" treatment with respect to such change. The parties desire toamend the Agreement in order to allow the Agreement to qualify under the"grandfathering" provisions of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2002-08 and topreserve the economic benefits which were contemplated to be delivered pursuantto the Agreement at the time the Agreement was originally executed. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing statement of purpose theparties hereto agree as follows: 1. The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "4. Payment of Premiums. As a convenience to the parties, ------------------- the Corporation shall pay all premiums under the Policy to the Insurer as and when such premiums become due. During the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay the full amount of the premiums to the Insurer as set forth on Exhibit 2A ---------- attached hereto. Beginning in the sixteenth (16th) year of the Policy, the Corporation shall pay premiums under the Policy to the Insurer equal to the economic value of the death benefit under  the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. Within thirty (30) days of each such premium payment by the Corporation during the five (5) year period following the effective date of the Policy and within thirty (30) days of each anniversary of the effective date of the Policy thereafter, the Owner shall pay to the Corporation the economic value of the death benefit under the Policy as determined by the Insurer from time to time while the Policy remains in effect. A schedule of the premiums to be paid by the Owner based on the Insurer's current rates is set forth on Exhibit 2A." ---------- 2. The last sentence of Section 10 of the Agreement is hereby amendedto read as follows: "If the Owner does not repay the entire amount of the Corporation's Interest in the Policy within such sixty (60) day time period, the Corporation may enforce its rights under the Collateral Assignment and, upon exercise of the Corporation's rights under the Collateral Assignment, the Owner shall be liable for any deficiency realized by the Corporation." 3. Exhibit 2 attached to the Agreement is hereby deleted in its ---------entirety and replaced by Exhibit 2A attached hereto and all references in the ----------Agreement to "Exhibit 2" shall hereby refer to Exhibit 2A. ---------- 4. Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby,the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment on January24, 2002.BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.By: /s/ J. Steele Alphin Trustee under the Irrevocable Trust ------------------------------ dated August 12, 1999 J. Steele Alphin Corporate Personnel Executive By: /s/ John T. McElroy -------------------------------- "Corporation" Name: John T. McElroy ------------------------------ Title: Assistant Vice President ----------------------------- "Owner" 2  Exhibit 10(v) BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION SUMMARY OF CORPORATE MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLANI. Objective of the Plan --------------------- The purposes of this plan is to retain key management of the Corporation and to motivate them to increase shareholders' wealth.II. Participants ------------ Participants are approved by the Management Compensation Committee. Participants whose employment is terminated (either by Bank of America or the participant) prior to the receipt of payment will not be eligible to receive the award. This rule does not apply in cases related to death, retirement or disability.III. Determination of the Annual Fund -------------------------------- Funding will be based on a target incentive award and the achievement of goals or objectives as determined at the beginning of the year. Preliminary funding of the pool will be based primarily on the Corporation's achievement of its financial goals such as EPS growth, Revenue growth, SVA. . If the Corporation achieves a minimum performance level, the funding level will be adjusted accordingly. If this minimum level of performance is not achieved, a pool will not be funded. . Upon achievement of the target performance level, a pool will be funded based on the targeted incentive award for all participants in the plan. . The pool funding for achievement above target performance will be determined by the Management Compensation Committee. The pool as determined above may be adjusted up or down based on the Corporation's financial performance and achievement of goals or objectives as determined by the Management Compensation Committee.IV. Funding Allocation/Award Determination -------------------------------------- Participants will be evaluated on the achievement of specific performance goals. The Management Compensation Committee has the authority to: A. Determine the award amount, if any, to eligible participants based on guidelines or rules deemed appropriate. B. Allocate among the eligible participants all or any portion of the pool funded. C. Reduce or eliminate awards based on a less than acceptable level of performance.V. Plan Year --------- The plan year shall be from January 1 to December 31.  Exhibit 10(x)April 23, 2001Mr. Richard M. DeMartini42 Masterton RoadBronxville, NY 10708Dear Rich:This letter (the "Agreement") confirms the terms and conditions of youremployment with Bank of America Corporation (the "Company") for the two-yearperiod (the "Term") beginning on your start date, February 26, 2001 (the "StartDate"), and ending on February 26, 2003. This Agreement is not intended todescribe the terms and conditions that would apply to your employment with theCompany for periods after February 26, 2003. . Your corporate title will be Executive Vice President. You will hold the position of President of the Asset Management Group reporting directly to Mr. Ken Lewis. For purposes of this Agreement, references to the Asset Management Group include the businesses currently denominated as Private Banking, BACAP and BAISI. You will perform your duties hereunder at the Company's offices in the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York, New York, with such business travel to other locations as may be necessary in connection with the performance of your responsibilities. . You will receive a salary of $41,666.66 per month ($500,000.00 annualized), less appropriate taxes. . You will be eligible for an annual target cash incentive award for each calendar year during the Term of $5,000,000, payable each February after the applicable year, less appropriate taxes. Your cash incentive awards will be paid under the terms of our Bank of America Equity Incentive Plan 2000 (the "Equity Incentive Plan"), which pays a portion of any annual incentive awards in the form of restricted stock units ("RSUs"). If you terminate for any reason other than cause, these shares will be fully vested. . You will receive options to purchase 310,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock ("Common Stock") on March 1, 2001 (the "Grant Date"), one-third of which will vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date. . Your target stock option award for 2001 performance (to be granted in February 2002) is 210,000 shares. All stock and options awarded to you will provide that you will be treated as a retiree if you terminate employment with the Company (other than for "Cause" as defined below) after having completed at least 5 years of service with the Company.  . Subject to the terms of this paragraph, the Company will pay you an amount sufficient to compensate you for any reasonable losses incurred by you as a result of the forfeiture of any options or restricted stock units that occur in connection with the termination of your employment with your former employer (such amounts being referred to herein as "Loss Amounts"). You will use reasonable best efforts to limit the Loss Amounts. The loss amounts will be paid to you on the earlier to occur of (1) the end of the Term or (2) the date your employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or by you for Good Reason.OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS . If your employment is terminated during the Term (i) by the Company without Cause or (ii) by you for "Good Reason" (as defined below), then: (A) you will receive a lump sum payment equal to your base salary for the remainder of the term; (B) your target annual cash incentive award for the year of termination and (C) an amount equal to the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value of any unvested options as of the date of your termination, less appropriate taxes. If your employment is terminated within one year after the term, for the reasons outlined above, you will receive a lump sum payment of the amount described in (C). . For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (I) the commission of an act of fraud or dishonesty in the course of your employment; (ii) conviction of (or a plea of no contest with respect to) a crime constituting a felony; or (iii) conviction of (or a plea of no contest with respect to) a crime involving any act of fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude materially injurious to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. . For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean (i) any material breach by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, which breach is not cured by the Company within ten days after you give the Company written notice of such breach, (ii) any material diminution of your responsibilities or authority as an officer of the Company or as President of the Asset Management Group reporting directly to Mr. Lewis, or any reorganization or restructuring of the Asset Management Group that materially reduces the businesses operating under your authority, or (iii) any requirement that you perform your duties under this Agreement principally in an office located outside of the Borough of Manhattan in the City of New York, New York. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. . This Agreement constitute the entire and final expression of the agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, oral and written, between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof This Agreement may only be modified or amended by an instrument in writing signed by both parties hereto. If you have any questions or if there is any way I can help you further, pleasedo not hesitate to call. Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing termsby signing and returning the enclosed counterpart of this Agreement, whereuponthis Agreement shall be a binding agreement between the company and you.Sincerely,BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATIONBy: /s/ Charles D. Loring -------------------------------Charles D. LoringPersonnel ExecutiveBank of AmericaAcknowledged and Agreed: /s/ Richard M. DeMartini 4/24/01- ---------------------------------- -----------------------------------Richard M. DeMartini Date  Exhibit 12(a)BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESRATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  Exhibit 12(b)BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIESRATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and FinancialConditionThis Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subjectto risks and uncertainties and include information about possible or assumedfuture results of operations. Many possible events or factors could affect thefuture financial results and performance of Bank of America Corporation (theCorporation). This could cause results or performance to differ materially fromthose expressed in our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects","anticipates", "believes", "estimates", variations of such words and othersimilar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certainrisks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict. Therefore,actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed orforecasted in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements. Readers of theCorporation's Annual Report should not rely solely on the forward-lookingstatements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed throughoutthis report. These statements are representative only on the date hereof, andthe Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-lookingstatements made. The possible events or factors include the following: the Corporation'sloan growth is dependent on general economic conditions as well as variousdiscretionary factors such as decisions to securitize, sell, or purchase certainloans or loan portfolios; syndications or participations of loans; retention ofresidential mortgage loans; and the management of borrower, industry, productand geographic concentrations and the mix of the loan portfolio. The level ofnonperforming assets, charge-offs and provision expense can be affected bylocal, regional and international economic and market conditions, including theconcentrations of borrowers, industries, products and geographic locations, themix of the loan portfolio and management's judgments regarding thecollectibility of loans. Liquidity requirements may change as a result offluctuations in assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures, whichwill impact the capital and debt financing needs of the Corporation and the mixof funding sources. Decisions to purchase, hold or sell securities are alsodependent on liquidity requirements and market volatility, as well as on- andoff-balance sheet positions. Factors that may impact interest rate risk includelocal, regional and international economic conditions, levels, mix, maturities,yields or rates of assets and liabilities, utilization and effectiveness ofinterest rate contracts and the wholesale and retail funding sources of theCorporation. The Corporation is also exposed to the potential of losses arisingfrom adverse changes in market rates and prices which can adversely impact thevalue of financial products, including securities, loans, deposits, debt andderivative financial instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps, options andother financial instruments with similar characteristics. The Corporation isalso exposed to potential litigation liabilities, including costs, expenses,settlements and judgments, that may adversely affect the Corporation. In addition, the banking industry in general is subject to various monetaryand fiscal policies and regulations, which include those determined by theFederal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, the FederalDeposit Insurance Corporation, state regulators and the Office of ThriftSupervision, whose policies and regulations could affect the Corporation'sresults. Other factors that may cause actual results to differ from theforward-looking statements include the following: projected business increasesfollowing process changes and productivity and investment initiatives are lowerthan expected or do not pay for severance or other related costs as quickly asanticipated; competition with other local, regional and international banks,thrifts, credit unions and other nonbank financial institutions, such asinvestment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investmentcompanies and insurance companies, as well as other entities which offerfinancial services, located both within and outside the United States andthrough alternative delivery channels such as the Internet; interest rate,market and monetary fluctuations; inflation; market volatility; general economicconditions and economic conditions in the geographic regions and industries inwhich the Corporation operates; introduction and acceptance of newbanking-related products, services and enhancements; fee pricing strategies,mergers and acquisitions and their integration into the Corporation; andmanagement's ability to manage these and other risks.OverviewThe Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and afinancial holding company, and is headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina.The Corporation operates in 21 states and the District of Columbia and hasoffices located in 34 countries. The Corporation provides a diversified range ofbanking and certain nonbanking financial services and products both domesticallyand internationally through four business segments:Consumer and Commercial Banking, Asset Management, Global Corporate andInvestment Banking and Equity Investments. A customer-centered strategic focusis changing the way the Corporation is managing its business. In addition toexisting financial reporting, the Corporation has begun preparing customersegment-based financial operating information. At December 31, 2001, theCorporation had $622 billion in assets and approximately 143,000 full-timeequivalent employees. Refer to Table One and Table Twenty-Five for annual andquarterly selected financial data, respectively.Key performance highlights for 2001 compared to 2000:o Net income totaled $6.8 billion, or $4.18 per common share (diluted), compared to $7.5 billion, or $4.52 per common share (diluted). The return on average common shareholders' equity was 13.96 percent.o Operating earnings, which excluded charges related to the Corporation's strategic decision to exit certain consumer finance businesses in 2001 and related to restructuring in 2000, totaled $8.0 billion, or $4.95 per common share (diluted), compared to $7.9 billion, or $4.72 per common share (diluted). Excluding exit charges, the return on average common shareholders' equity was 16.53 percent in 2001. Shareholder value added (SVA), excluding exit and restructuring charges, remained essentially unchanged at $3.1 billion. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 33 o Total revenue includes net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income. Total revenue was $35.0 billion, an increase of $1.7 billion. o Net interest income increased $2.0 billion to $20.6 billion. The increase was primarily due to the effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation's asset and liability positions and investment portfolio repositioning, an increased trading-related contribution, higher deposit and equity levels and a favorable shift in loan mix. These factors were partially offset by the impact of the money market deposit pricing initiative and a decrease in auto lease financing contributions. Average managed loans and leases were $378.7 billion, a $1.2 billion decrease, primarily due to an eight percent decrease in commercial loans and leases, partially offset by an eight percent increase in consumer loans and leases. Average customer-based deposits grew to $306.9 billion, a $14.9 billion increase. The net interest yield was 3.68 percent, a 48 basis point increase. The increase in the net interest yield was primarily due to the effect of changes in interest rates and investment portfolio repositioning. o Noninterest income was $14.3 billion, a $234 million decrease. Consumer and Commercial Banking experienced a $321 million, or nine percent, increase in service charges driven by higher business volumes. A $192 million, or nine percent, increase in card income was primarily due to both new account growth in both credit and debit card and increased purchase volume on existing accounts. Revenue in the mortgage banking business increased 48 percent primarily reflecting higher origination activity, increased gains from higher loan sales to the secondary market and the favorable mark-to-market adjustments on certain mortgage banking assets and related derivative instruments, partially offset by increased prepayments on mortgage loans as a result of the declining interest rate environment. Income from investment and brokerage services increased $45 million in the Asset Management segment largely due to new asset management business and the completed acquisition of Marsico Capital Management LLC (Marsico), partially offset by lower broker activity due to decreased trade volume. The noninterest income component of trading-related revenue within Global Corporate and Investment Banking increased $77 million, as increased revenues from trading-related activities in interest rate, fixed income and commodities contracts more than offset a decrease in equities and equity derivatives trading. Investment banking income increased $67 million, as strong growth in fixed income origination was partially offset by weaker demand for syndications, equity underwriting and advisory services. Equity Investments had equity investment gains of $230 million, reflecting a sharp decline of $763 million.o On August 15, 2001, the Corporation announced that it was exiting its auto leasing and subprime real estate lending businesses. As a result of exiting these consumer finance businesses, the Corporation recorded pre-tax charges of $1.7 billion ($1.3 billion after-tax), consisting of provision for credit losses of $395 million and business exit costs, the noninterest expense component, of $1.3 billion.o Including the exit charge, the provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion. Excluding the exit charge, the provision for credit losses was $3.9 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion from 2000. Excluding exit-related charge-offs of $635 million, net charge-offs were $3.6 billion, or 0.99 percent of average loans and leases, an increase of 38 basis points from 2000. This increase in net charge-offs of $1.2 billion from 2000 was primarily due to credit quality deterioration in the commercial-domestic portfolio and an increase in bankcard charge-offs. As a matter of corporate practice, we do not discuss specific client relationships; however, due to the publicity and interest surrounding Enron Corporation, the Corporation is making an exception. Net charge-offs in 2001 included $210 million related to Enron Corporation. Excluding exit-related charges, the Corporation recorded additional provision expense in excess of charge-offs of $283 million due to deterioration in credit quality and the overall uncertainty in the economy.o Nonperforming assets were $4.9 billion, or 1.49 percent of loans, leases and foreclosed properties at December 31, 2001, a $549 million decrease from December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily a result of the transfer of $1.2 billion of nonperforming subprime real estate loans to loans held for sale as well as nonperforming loan sales, partially offset by increases in the commercial - domestic loan portfolio that resulted from credit deterioration as companies were affected by the weakening economic environment. The allowance for credit losses totaled $6.9 billion or 2.09 percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2001, a 35 basis point increase from 1.74 percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2000.o Noninterest expense excluding business exit costs in 2001 and restructuring charges in 2000 was $19.4 billion, a $1.3 billion increase, primarily driven by higher personnel, litigation, professional fees, data processing and marketing expenses. Higher personnel expense was driven by a $150 million severance charge in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to ongoing efficiency improvement programs, higher revenue-related incentive compensation and increased salaries expense. Higher professional fees reflected the increase in initiatives related to the Corporation's strategy to improve customer satisfaction, the launch of a company-wide Six Sigma quality and productivity program and implementation of a new integrated business planning process. The Corporation recorded $334 million in litigation expense in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to small settlements and an addition to the legal reserve to cover increased exposure to existing litigation. Subsequent to December 31, 2001, the Corporation announced that it had reached an agreement in principle to settle various shareholder lawsuits for payments totaling $490 million. The proposed settlement will be paid from existing litigation reserves and insurance and will not have an impact on the Corporation's financial results. For additional information on litigation, see Note Twelve of the consolidated financial statements.o A tax benefit of $418 million, generated as a result of the Corporation's realignment of certain problem loan management activities into a wholly-owned subsidiary, Banc of America Strategic Solutions, Inc. (SSI), resulted in a 17 percent effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2001. The assets and liabilities of SSI are fully consolidated with those of the Corporation. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 34 Table 1 Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data/(1)/ Cash basis calculations exclude goodwill and other intangible amortizationexpense./(2)/ Operating basis excludes provision for credit losses of $395 million andnoninterest expense of $1,305 million related to the exit of certain consumerfinance businesses in 2001 and merger and restructuring charges in 2000, 1999,1998 and 1997./(3)/ Ratios for 1997 have not been restated to reflect the impact of theBankAmerica and Barnett mergers. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 35 Summary of Significant Accounting PoliciesThe Corporation's accounting policies are fundamental to understandingmanagement's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financialcondition. Many of the Corporation's accounting policies require significantjudgment regarding valuation of assets and liabilities and/or significantinterpretation of the specific accounting guidance. The Corporation'ssignificant accounting policies are discussed in detail in Note One of theconsolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of the morejudgmental and complex accounting policies of the Corporation. Many of the Corporation's assets and liabilities are recorded using variousvaluation techniques that require significant judgment as to recoverability. Thecollectablity of loans is reflected through the Corporation's estimate of theallowance for credit losses. The Corporation performs periodic and systematicdetailed reviews of its lending portfolio to assess overall collectibility. Inaddition, certain assets and liabilities are reflected at their estimated fairvalue in the consolidated financial statements. Such amounts are based on eitherquoted market prices or estimated values derived by the Corporation utilizingdealer quotes, market comparisons or internally generated modelling techniques.The Corporation's internal models generally involve present value of cash flowtechniques. The various valuation techniques are discussed in greater detailelsewhere in management's discussion and analysis and the notes to theconsolidated financial statements. There are other complex accounting standards that require the Corporationto employ significant judgment in interpreting and applying certain of theprinciples prescribed by those standards. These judgments include, but are notlimited to, the determination of whether a financial instrument or othercontract meets the definition of a derivative in accordance with Statement ofFinancial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instrumentsand Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133), and the applicable hedge deferral criteria,the accounting for the transfer of financial assets and extinguishments ofliabilities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets andExtinguishments of Liabilities" (SFAS 140), and the determination of whencertain special purpose vehicles should be consolidated in the Corporation'sbalance sheet and statement of income. For a more complete discussion of thesepolicies, see Notes One, Five and Eight of the consolidated financialstatements. The remainder of management's discussion and analysis of the Corporation'sresults of operations and financial position should be read in conjunction withthe consolidated financial statements and related notes presented on pages 78through 119.Business Segment OperationsThe Corporation provides a diversified range of banking and nonbanking financialservices and products through its various subsidiaries. The Corporation managesits operations through four business segments: Consumer and Commercial Banking,Asset Management, Global Corporate and Investment Banking and EquityInvestments. Certain operating segments have been aggregated into a singlebusiness segment. In the first quarter of 2001, the thirty-year mortgageportfolio was moved from Consumer and Commercial Banking to the Corporate Othersegment. In the third quarter of 2001, certain consumer finance businesses beingliquidated were transferred from Consumer and Commercial Banking to CorporateOther. A customer-centered strategic focus is changing the way the Corporationis managing its business. In addition to existing financial reporting, theCorporation has begun preparing customer segment-based financial operatinginformation. The business segments summarized in Table Two are primarily managed with afocus on various performance measures including total revenue, net income,shareholder value added (SVA), return on average equity and efficiency. Some ofthese performance measures are also presented on a cash basis which excludes theimpact of goodwill and other intangible amortization expense. Total revenueincludes net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterestincome. The net interest income of the business segments reflects the results ofa funds transfer pricing process which matches assets and liabilities withsimilar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics and reflects theallocation of net interest income related to the Corporation's overall asset andliability management activities on a proportionate basis. SVA is a performancemeasure that is aligned with the Corporation's growth strategy orientation andstrengthens the Corporation's focus on generating long-term growth andshareholder value. SVA is defined as cash basis operating earnings less a chargefor the use of capital. The capital charge is calculated by multiplying 12percent (management's estimate of the shareholder's minimum required rate ofreturn on capital invested) by average total common shareholders' equity (at theCorporation level) and by average allocated equity (at the business segmentlevel). Equity is allocated to each business segment based on an assessment ofits inherent risk. See Note Nineteen of the consolidated financial statements for additionalbusiness segment information, reconciliations to consolidated amounts andinformation on Corporate Other. Additional information on noninterest income canbe found in the "Noninterest Income" section beginning on page 46. Certain priorperiod amounts have been reclassified between segments and their components(presented after Table Two) to conform to the current period presentation. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 36 n/m = not meaningful/(1)/ There were no material intersegment revenues among the segments./(2)/ Net interest income is presented on a taxable-equivalent basis./(3)/ Noninterest income included the $83 million SFAS 133 transition adjustmentnet loss which was included in trading account profits in 2001. The componentsof the transition adjustment by segment were a gain of $4 million for Consumerand Commercial Banking, a gain of $19 million for Global Corporate andInvestment Banking and a loss of $106 million for Corporate Other (not includedin the table above).Consumer and Commercial BankingConsumer and Commercial Banking provides a wide array of products and servicesto individuals, small businesses and middle market companies through multipledelivery channels. The results for 2001 reflect the Corporation's continued focus on cardservices as a growth area. End of period managed consumer card outstandingsincreased 19 percent from 2000, primarily driven by the leveraging of theCorporation's franchise to open new accounts with existing customers, theresults of card marketing programs and efforts aimed at increasing customersatisfaction. In 2001, merchant processing volume increased 12 percent, andtotal card services purchase volume increased 12 percent, primarily driven by an18 percent increase in debit card purchase volume. The increase in debit cardpurchase volume was a result of increased customer penetration and activationrates, partially offset by a drop in purchase volume growth rates following theevents of September 11, 2001. In the second quarter of 2001, the Corporation's commercial real estatebanking business was moved from Global Corporate and Investment Banking toConsumer and Commercial Banking. The credit and client management process andcustomer base of the business are better aligned with those of Consumer andCommercial Banking.Consumer and Commercial Banking(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 --------- ---------Net interest income $ 13,364 $ 12,620Noninterest income 8,008 7,356- ------------------------------------ --------- --------- Total revenue 21,372 19,976Provision for credit losses 1,802 1,111Cash basis earnings 5,479 5,200Shareholder value added 3,165 2,830Cash basis efficiency ratio 51.7% 53.5%- ------------------------------------ --------- ---------o Total revenue increased $1.4 billion, or seven percent, in 2001 compared to 2000.o Net interest income increased $744 million, or six percent, due to a favorable shift in loan mix, overall loan and deposit growth and the Corporation's overall asset and liability management. This increase was partially offset by the impact of the money market deposit pricing initiative as the Corporation offered more competitive money market savings rates.o Noninterest income increased $652 million, or nine percent, driven by nine percent increases in card income and service charges and strong mortgage banking revenue. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 37 o Cash basis earnings in 2001 rose $279 million, or five percent, due to the increases in net interest income and noninterest income discussed above, partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses and a three percent increase in noninterest expense. o The provision for credit losses increased $691 million, or 62 percent, reflecting higher charge-offs in the commercial and bankcard loan portfolios.o Shareholder value added increased $335 million over the prior year as a result of the increase in cash basis earnings and lower capital as a result of reductions in commercial loan levels. The major components of Consumer and Commercial Banking are Banking Regions,Consumer Products and Commercial Banking.Banking RegionsBanking Regions serves consumer households in 21 states and the District ofColumbia and overseas through its network of 4,251 banking centers, 13,113 ATMs,telephone and Internet channels on www.bankofamerica.com. Banking Regionsprovides a wide array of products and services, including deposit products suchas checking, money market savings accounts, time deposits and IRAs, debit cardproducts and credit products such as home equity, mortgage and personal autoloans. Banking Regions also includes small business banking providing treasurymanagement, credit services, community investment, check card, e-commerce andbrokerage services to nearly two million small business relationships across thefranchise.Banking Regions(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 8,561 $ 8,587Noninterest income 3,866 3,547- ------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 12,427 12,134Provision for credit losses 281 268Cash basis earnings 3,108 3,056Shareholder value added 1,767 1,693Cash basis efficiency ratio 58.5% 58.1%- ------------------------------- -------- --------o Total revenue in 2001 increased $293 million, or two percent, as an increase in noninterest income was partially offset by a slight decrease in net interest income. o Loan growth, primarily in residential mortgages and home equity lending, and deposit growth had a positive effect on net interest income but were offset by the impact of the money market deposit pricing initiative. o Noninterest income increased $319 million, or nine percent, primarily due to an increase in consumer service charges of $170 million, or seven percent, resulting from higher business volumes, and a $117 million, or 23 percent, increase in debit card income, driven by a higher number of active debit cards from increased penetration and activation rates and an increase in purchase volume.o Cash basis earnings increased $52 million, or two percent, in 2001, primarily attributable to the increase in revenue discussed above offset by a three percent increase in noninterest expense.Consumer ProductsConsumer Products provides specialized services such as the origination andservicing of residential mortgage loans, issuance and servicing of credit cards,direct banking via telephone and Internet, lending and investing to develop low-and moderate-income communities, student lending and certain insurance services.Consumer Products also provides retail finance and floorplan programs to marine,RV and auto dealerships.Consumer Products(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 2,211 $ 1,382Noninterest income 3,109 2,822- ------------------------------- ---------------- Total revenue 5,320 4,204Provision for credit losses 915 527Cash basis earnings 1,447 1,077Shareholder value added 1,012 649Cash basis efficiency ratio 40.1% 47.7%- ------------------------------- ----------------o Total revenue in 2001 increased $1.1 billion, or 27 percent, due to increases in both net interest income and noninterest income. o Net interest income increased $829 million, or 60 percent, primarily due to an increase in bankcard receivables from portfolio growth and maturity of credit card securitizations as well as lower funding costs. o Noninterest income increased $287 million, or 10 percent, primarily due to strong mortgage banking revenue and increased credit card income. Mortgage banking revenue increased $246 million, or 48 percent, due to higher origination activity and increased gains from higher loan sales to the secondary market. Mortgage banking revenue also included the favorable net mark-to-market adjustments, included in trading account B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 38  profits, on certain mortgage banking assets and the related derivative instruments. These increases were partially offset by increased prepayments on mortgage loans as a result of the declining interest rate environment. Credit card income grew $75 million, or four percent, due to new consumer card account growth and an increase in purchase volume, partially offset by a decline in servicing income from maturity of credit card securitizations.o The $370 million, or 34 percent, increase in cash basis earnings in 2001 was due to the increases in net interest income and noninterest income discussed above. These increases were partially offset by an increase in the provision for credit losses and higher expenses. Expense growth was primarily driven by card marketing and mortgage production volume activities. o The provision for credit losses increased 74 percent to $915 million primarily due to higher net charge-offs in the bankcard loan portfolio. The increase in bankcard charge-offs was driven by portfolio growth, an increase in personal bankruptcy filings and a weaker economic environment.Commercial BankingCommercial Banking provides commercial lending and treasury management servicesto middle market companies with annual revenue between $10 million and $500million. These services are available through relationship manager teams as wellas through alternative channels such as the telephone via the commercial servicecenter and the Internet by accessing Bank of America Direct.Commercial Banking(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 2,592 $ 2,651Noninterest income 1,033 987- ------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 3,625 3,638Provision for credit losses 606 316Cash basis earnings 924 1,067Shareholder value added 386 488Cash basis efficiency ratio 45.6% 44.7%- ------------------------------- -------- --------o Noninterest income increased five percent and was offset by a two percent decline in net interest income. Total revenue in 2001 remained flat at $3.6 billion. o The $46 million increase in noninterest income was primarily attributable to higher corporate service charges as customers opted to pay service charges rather than carry excess deposit balances in the lower rate environment, offset by the liquidation of certain commercial finance businesses. o Net interest income declined $59 million, primarily due to a reduction in commercial loans and the liquidation of certain commercial finance businesses.o The $143 million, or 13 percent, decline in cash basis earnings was primarily driven by an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by a tax benefit of $53 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to the funding of SSI. o The provision for credit losses increased $290 million to $606 million as a result of credit deterioration in the commercial loan portfolio.o Shareholder value added decreased $102 million as the decline in cash basis earnings was partially offset by lower capital as a result of reductions in commercial loan levels.Asset ManagementAsset Management includes the Private Bank, Banc of America Capital Managementand the Individual Investor Group. The Private Bank's goal is to assistindividuals and families in building and preserving their wealth by providinginvestment, fiduciary and comprehensive credit expertise to high-net-worthclients. Banc of America Capital Management is an asset-gathering and assetmanagement organization serving the needs of institutional clients,high-net-worth individuals and retail customers. Banc of America CapitalManagement manages money and distribution channels, manufactures investmentproducts, offers institutional separate accounts and wrap programs, and providesadvice to clients through asset allocation expertise and software. TheIndividual Investor Group, which is comprised of Private Client Services andBanc of America Investment Services, Inc., provides investment, securities andfinancial planning services to affluent and high-net-worth individuals. PrivateClient Services focuses on high-net-worth individuals. Banc of AmericaInvestment Services, Inc. includes both the full-service network of investmentprofessionals and an extensive on-line investor service. One of the Corporation's strategies is to focus on and grow the assetmanagement business. Recent initiatives include new investment platforms thatbroaden the Corporation's capabilities to maximize market opportunity for itsclients. The Corporation continues to enhance the financial planning tools usedto assist clients with their financial goals. Effective January 2, 2001, the Corporation acquired the remaining 50percent of Marsico for a total investment of $1.1 billion. The Corporationacquired the first 50 percent in 1999. Marsico is a Denver-based investmentmanagement firm specializing in large capitalization growth stocks. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 39 Client assets at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were:Client Assets(Dollars in billions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Assets under management $ 314.2 $ 278.1Client brokerage assets 99.4 99.5Assets in custody 46.9 48.5- -------------------------- -------- -------- Total client assets $ 460.5 $ 426.1 -------------------------- ------- ------- Assets under management typically generate fees based on a percentage oftheir value. Assets of the Nations Funds family of mutual funds reached $148billion at December 31, 2001, primarily driven by an increase in money marketfunds in the declining equity market environment. Growth in assets undermanagement of $36 billion, or 13 percent, was primarily driven by the growth inmoney market funds as well as the addition of the remaining Marsico Funds.Client brokerage assets, a source of commission revenue, were flat atapproximately $100 billion compared to the prior year. Assets in custody, whichgenerate custodial fees, declined slightly.Asset Management(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 ------ ------Net interest income $ 741 $ 666Noninterest income 1,733 1,801- ------------------------------- ------ ------ Total revenue 2,474 2,467Provision for credit losses 121 47Cash basis earnings 578 619Shareholder value added 312 421Cash basis efficiency ratio 59.9% 58.0%- ------------------------------- ------ ------ o Total revenue remained flat at $2.5 billion in 2001, as the increase in net interest income was offset by a decline in noninterest income. o Net interest income increased $75 million, or 11 percent, due to the Corporation's overall asset and liability management and growth in the commercial and residential mortgage loan portfolios. o Noninterest income decreased $68 million, or four percent, as a decline in other income was partially offset by an increase in investment and brokerage services income. The increase in investment and brokerage services income was due to new asset management business and the completed acquisition of Marsico, partially offset by lower broker activity due to decreased trade volume. o Cash basis earnings decreased $41 million, or seven percent, in 2001, primarily due to a $74 million increase in provision expense largely related to one loan that was charged off in the second quarter of 2001 and increased noninterest expense. o Noninterest expense increased $78 million, or five percent, reflecting investments in new private banking offices, the acquisition of Marsico, and personnel supporting revenue growth initiatives, partially offset by one-time business divestiture expenditures in 2000. o Shareholder value added declined $109 million due to the decline in cash basis earnings and the increased capital associated with the acquisition of Marsico.Global Corporate and Investment BankingGlobal Corporate and Investment Banking provides a broad array of financialservices such as investment banking, capital markets, trade finance, treasurymanagement, lending, leasing and financial advisory services to domestic andinternational corporations, financial institutions and government entities.Clients are supported through offices in 34 countries in four distinctgeographic regions: U.S. and Canada; Asia; Europe, Middle East and Africa; andLatin America. Products and services provided include loan origination, mergerand acquisition advisory, debt and equity underwriting and trading, cashmanagement, derivatives, foreign exchange, leasing, leveraged finance, projectfinance, structured finance and trade services.Global Corporate and Investment Banking(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 4,592 $ 3,725Noninterest income 4,639 4,444- --------------------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 9,231 8,169Provision for credit losses 1,275 751Cash basis earnings 2,022 1,897Shareholder value added 644 336Cash basis efficiency ratio 54.3% 57.4%- --------------------------------------------- -------- -------- o In 2001, total revenue increased $1.1 billion, or 13 percent, primarily due to $620 million, or 22 percent, growth in trading-related revenue. o Net interest income increased $867 million, or 23 percent, as a result of higher trading-related activities and the Corporation's overall asset and liability management, partially offset by lower commercial loan levels. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 40  o Noninterest income increased $195 million, or four percent, as increases in investment and brokerage services, corporate service charges, trading account profits and investment banking income were partially offset by a decline in other income.o Cash basis earnings increased $125 million, or seven percent, in 2001 as revenue growth was partially offset by higher credit-related costs and noninterest expense. o The provision for credit losses increased $524 million to $1.3 billion due to credit quality deterioration in the commercial-domestic loan portfolio of Global Credit Products. o A $331 million, or seven percent, increase in noninterest expense was primarily due to higher market-related incentives and other expenses in line with revenue growth.o Shareholder value added increased $308 million as a result of the increase in cash basis earnings as well as lower capital due to reductions in loan levels. Global Corporate and Investment Banking offers clients a comprehensiverange of global capabilities through three components: Global InvestmentBanking, Global Credit Products and Global Treasury Services.Global Investment BankingGlobal Investment Banking includes the Corporation's investment bankingactivities and risk management products. Through a separate subsidiary, Banc ofAmerica Securities LLC, Global Investment Banking underwrites and makes marketsin equity securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities,commercial paper, and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Banc ofAmerica Securities LLC also provides correspondent clearing services for othersecurities broker/dealers and prime-brokerage services. Debt and equitysecurities research, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisoryservices and private placements are also provided through Banc of AmericaSecurities LLC. In addition, Global Investment Banking provides risk management solutionsfor our global customer base using interest rate, equity, credit and commodityderivatives, foreign exchange, fixed income and mortgage-related products. Insupport of these activities, the businesses will take positions in theseproducts and capitalize on market-making activities. The Global InvestmentBanking business also takes an active role in the trading of fixed incomesecurities in all of the regions in which Global Corporate and InvestmentBanking transacts business and is a primary dealer in the U.S. as well as inseveral international locations.Global Investment Banking(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 1,693 $ 1,125Noninterest income 3,153 3,007- ------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 4,846 4,132Provision for credit losses 26 43Cash basis earnings 932 778Shareholder value added 512 374Cash basis efficiency ratio 69.9% 72.6%- ------------------------------- -------- --------o Total revenue grew $714 million, or 17 percent, in 2001 primarily due to higher trading-related revenue. o Net interest income grew $568 million, or 51 percent, as a result of higher trading-related activities. o Higher investment and brokerage services income and investment banking income more than offset a decrease in other income, resulting in noninterest income growth of five percent. Investment banking income increased $67 million as strong fixed income originations were partially offset by weaker demand in syndications, equity underwriting and advisory services.o Cash basis earnings increased $154 million, or 20 percent, in 2001, as revenue growth was partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense. o The $390 million, or 13 percent, increase in noninterest expense was primarily due to higher market-related incentives and other expenses in line with revenue growth.Global Credit ProductsGlobal Credit Products provides credit and lending services and includes thecorporate industry-focused portfolio, leasing and project finance.Global Credit Products(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ 2,181 $ 1,993Noninterest income 664 678- ------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 2,845 2,671Provision for credit losses 1,265 764Cash basis earnings 766 887Shareholder value added (127) (208)Cash basis efficiency ratio 20.6% 23.5%- ------------------------------- -------- -------- B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 41 o Total revenue increased $174 million, or seven percent, in 2001 compared to 2000. o Net interest income increased $188 million, or nine percent, compared to the prior year as lower funding costs offset the impact of lower commercial loan levels. o Noninterest income declined $14 million, or two percent, primarily due to declines in the leasing portfolio, partially offset by an increase in trading account profits.o Cash basis earnings declined $121 million, or 14 percent, primarily due to an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by the increase in revenue and a tax benefit of $93 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to the funding of SSI. o The provision for credit losses increased $501 million, or 66 percent, driven by credit quality deterioration in the commercial-domestic loan portfolio. Net charge-offs included $210 million in charge-offs related to Enron Corporation.o Shareholder value added increased $81 million as the decline in cash basis earnings was offset by lower capital, reflecting the continued efforts to reduce corporate loan levels and exit less profitable relationships.Global Treasury ServicesGlobal Treasury Services provides the technology, strategies and integratedsolutions to help financial institutions, government agencies and public andprivate companies manage their operations and cash flows on a local, regional,national and global level.Global Treasury Services(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 ------ ------Net interest income $ 718 $ 607Noninterest income 822 759- ------------------------------- ------ ------ Total revenue 1,540 1,366Provision for credit losses (16) (56)Cash basis earnings 324 232Shareholder value added 259 170Cash basis efficiency ratio 67.4% 77.6%- ------------------------------- ------ ------o Revenue increased $174 million, or 13 percent, with increases in both net interest income and noninterest income in 2001. o Net interest income increased $111 million, or 18 percent, primarily due to deposit growth and lower funding costs. o Noninterest income increased $63 million, or eight percent, due to an increase in corporate service charges as customers chose to pay service charges rather than maintain excess deposit balances in the lower rate environment.o Cash basis earnings increased $92 million, or 40 percent, in 2001 driven primarily by the growth in revenue.Equity InvestmentsEquity Investments includes Principal Investing, which is comprised of adiversified portfolio of investments in companies at all stages of the businesscycle, from start up to buyout. Investments are made on both a direct andindirect basis in the U.S. and overseas. Direct investing activity focuses onplaying an active role in the strategic and financial direction of the portfoliocompany as well as providing broad business experience and access to theCorporation's global resources. Indirect investments represent passive limitedpartnership stakes in funds managed by experienced third party private equityinvestors who act as general partners. Equity Investments also includes theCorporation's strategic technology and alliances investment portfolio.Equity Investments(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Net interest income $ (151) $ (139)Noninterest income 183 1,007- ------------------------------- -------- -------- Total revenue 32 868Provision for credit losses 8 4Cash basis earnings (84) 472Shareholder value added (363) 241Cash basis efficiency ratio n/m 11.7%- ------------------------------- -------- --------n/m = not meaningfulo In 2001, both revenue and cash basis earnings decreased substantially primarily due to lower equity investment gains. o Equity investment gains decreased $763 million to $230 million, with $50 million in Principal Investing and $180 million in the strategic investments portfolio. Principal Investing recorded cash gains of $425 million, offset by impairment charges of $335 million, of which $245 million occurred in the fourth quarter of 2001, and fair value adjustment losses of $40 million. Equity investment gains in the strategic investments portfolio included $140 million in the first quarter of 2001 related to the sale of an interest in the Star Systems ATM network. o Net interest income consists primarily of the funding cost associated with the carrying value of investments. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 42 o Shareholder value added declined $604 million reflecting the decline in cash basis earnings and an increase in capital driven by an increase in the level of equity investments and unused commitments.Results of OperationsNet Interest IncomeAn analysis of the Corporation's net interest income on a taxable-equivalentbasis and average balance sheet for the last three years and most recent fivequarters is presented in Tables Four and Twenty-Six, respectively. The changesin net interest income from year to year are analyzed in Table Five. As reported, net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis increased$2.0 billion to $20.6 billion in 2001 compared to 2000. Management also reviews"core net interest income," which adjusts reported net interest income for theimpact of trading-related activities, securitizations, asset sales anddivestitures, excluding balance sheet portfolios used to manage interest raterisk. For purposes of internal analysis, management combines trading-related netinterest income with trading account profits, as discussed in the "NoninterestIncome" section on page 46, as trading strategies are typically evaluated basedon total revenue. Noninterest income, rather than net interest income, isrecorded for assets that have been securitized as the Corporation takes on therole of servicer and records servicing income, and gains and losses onsecuritizations, where appropriate. Table Three below provides a reconciliation of net interest income on ataxable-equivalent basis presented in Table Four to core net interest income forthe year ended December 31:/(1)/ Net interest income is presented on a taxable-equivalent basis./(2)/ bp denotes basis points; 100 bp equals 1%.Core net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was $19.1 billion in 2001compared to $17.7 billion in 2000, an increase of $1.5 billion. The increase incore net interest income was driven by changes in interest rates and the effectof portfolio repositioning, higher levels of core funding and a favorable changein managed loan mix, partially offset by the impact of the money market depositpricing initiative and the decrease in auto lease financing contributions. Thehigher levels of core funding reflected a $14.9 billion increase in averagecustomer-based deposits and a $1.5 billion increase in average shareholders'equity. Core average earning assets were $438.7 billion in 2001, a decrease of$31.9 billion, compared to $470.6 billion in 2000, primarily reflecting reducedsecurities levels and average managed commercial loan balances partially offsetby growth in average managed consumer loan levels. Falling interest rates in2001 allowed the Corporation to shed lower yielding assets and reposition itsbalance sheet to take advantage of a steepened yield curve. Average managedconsumer loans increased eight percent led by growth in residential mortgages,bankcard receivables and home equity lines. Average managed commercial loansdecreased eight percent, reflecting continuing efforts to reduce corporate loanlevels and exit less profitable relationships. Loan growth is dependent oneconomic conditions and the management of borrower, industry, product andgeographic concentrations. The core net interest yield increased 61 basis points to 4.36 percent in2001 compared to 3.75 percent in 2000, mainly due to the effects of changes ininterest rates and portfolio repositioning, higher levels of core funding and afavorable change in managed loan mix. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 43 Table 4 Average Balances and Interest Rates - Taxable-Equivalent Basis/(1)/ The average balance and yield on securities are based on the average ofhistorical amortized cost balances./(2)/ Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances.Income on such nonperforming loans is recognized on a cash basis./(3)/ Interest income includes taxable-equivalent basis adjustments of $343,$322 and $215 in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Interest income alsoincludes the impact of risk management interest rate contracts, which increased(decreased) interest income on the underlying assets $978, $(48) and $306 in2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These amounts were substantially offset bycorresponding decreases or increases in the income earned on the underlyingassets. For further information on interest rate contracts, see "Asset andLiability Management Activities" beginning on page 67./(4)/ Primarily consists of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more./(5)/ Long-term debt includes trust preferred securities./(6)/ Interest expense includes the impact of risk management interest ratecontracts, which (increased) decreased interest expense on the underlyingliabilities $63, $(36) and $116 in 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively. Theseamounts were substantially offset by corresponding decreases or increases in theinterest paid on the underlying liabilities. For further information on interestrate contracts, see "Asset and Liability Management Activities" beginning onpage 67. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 44  B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 45 Table 5 Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income - Taxable-Equivalent Basis/(1)/ The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume or rate for that category. The change in rate/volume variance has been allocated to the rate variance.Noninterest IncomeAs presented in Table Six, noninterest income decreased $234 million to $14.3billion in 2001 from the comparable 2000 period. The decrease in noninterestincome reflects the increases in service charges, card income, investment andbrokerage services, mortgage banking income and investment banking income beingoffset by a sharp decline in equity investment gains as well as declines inother income and trading account profits. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 46 Table 6 Noninterest Income /1/ Trading account profits in 2001 included the $83 million SFAS 133 transition adjustment net loss. The components of the transition adjustment by segment were a gain of $4 million for Consumer and Commercial Banking, a gain of $19 million for Global Corporate and Investment Banking and a loss of $106 million for Corporate Other.The following section discusses the noninterest income results of theCorporation's four business segments. For additional business segmentinformation, see "Business Segment Operations" beginning on page 36.Consumer and Commercial Banking o Noninterest income for Consumer and Commercial Banking increased $652 million to $8.0 billion in 2001 from the comparable 2000 period, driven by increased service charges, higher card income and strong mortgage banking revenue. o Service charges include deposit account service charges, non-deposit service charges and fees and bankers' acceptances and letters of credit fees. Service charges increased $321 million to $3.8 billion in 2001 due to an increase in both consumer and corporate service charges. Consumer service charges increased $204 million primarily due to higher business volumes. Corporate service charges increased $117 million as corporate customers chose to pay higher fees rather than maintain excess deposit balances in the lower rate environment. o Card income includes interchange income, credit and debit card fees and merchant discount fees. Card income increased $192 million to $2.4 billion primarily due to new account growth in both credit and debit card and increased purchase volume on existing accounts. Growth in income for the core portfolio is being generated through traditional marketing channels, expanding relationships with existing customers and leveraging the banking center network. Card income includes activity from the securitized portfolio of $193 million and $209 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. This amount represents residual income which consists of revenues from the securitized credit card portfolio offset by charge-offs and interest expense paid to the bondholders. o Mortgage banking revenue increased $246 million to $758 million in 2001 and was comprised of mortgage banking income of $593 million and trading account profits of $165 million. The amount recorded in trading account profits represents the net mark-to-market adjustments on certain mortgage banking assets and the related derivative instruments. The increase in mortgage banking revenue in 2001 primarily reflected higher origination activity, increased gains on loan sales to the secondary market and favorable net mark-to-market adjustments included in trading account profits. These increases were partially offset by increased prepayments on mortgage loans as a result of the declining interest rate environment. The average managed portfolio of mortgage loans serviced increased $6.1 billion to $334.8 billion in 2001 compared to the same period in 2000. Total production of first mortgage loans originated through the Corporation increased $30.6 billion to $82.4 billion in 2001, reflecting a significant increase in refinancings as a result of declining interest rates. First mortgage loan origination volume was composed of approximately $49.6 billion of retail loans and $32.8 billion of correspondent and wholesale loans in 2001. Retail first mortgage origination volume increased to 60 percent of total volume in 2001 from 42 percent in 2000. The Corporation made a strategic decision to exit the correspondent loan origination channel during the second quarter of 2001. The Corporation's decision to exit the correspondent business was based upon its overall strategy to focus on businesses with greater potential to deepen and expand customer relationships and with higher potential returns.Asset Management o Noninterest income for Asset Management decreased $68 million to $1.7 billion in 2001 compared to the same period in 2000. The decrease was primarily attributable to a decline in other income, partially offset by increased income from investment and brokerage services. o Income from investment and brokerage services includes personal and institutional asset management fees and brokerage income. Income from investment and brokerage services increased $45 million to $1.6 billion in 2001 compared to the same period in 2000. This increase was largely due to new asset management business and the completed acquisition of Marsico being offset by lower broker activity due to decreased trade volume. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 47 Global Corporate and Investment Bankingo Noninterest income for Global Corporate and Investment Banking increased $195 million to $4.6 billion in 2001 compared to the same period in 2000. The increase was primarily due to increases in investment and brokerage services, corporate service charges, trading account profits and investment banking income, partially offset by a decline in other income. o Corporate service charges increased $72 million to $1.1 billion in 2001, primarily driven by corporate customers opting to pay service charges rather than maintain excess deposit balances in the lower rate environment. o Trading account profits, as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income, does not include the net interest income recognized on interest-earning and interest-bearing trading positions or the related funding charge or benefit. Trading account profits as well as trading-related net interest income ("trading-related revenue") are presented in the following table as they are both considered in evaluating the overall profitability of the Corporation's trading positions. Trading-related revenue increased $620 million to $3.4 billion in 2001, due to a $543 million increase in the net interest margin and a $77 million increase in trading account profits. Increases in the fixed income, interest rate and commodities contract categories were partially offset by a decrease in equities and equity derivatives contracts. Fixed income showed the largest increase, up $483 million, or 129 percent, primarily attributable to an increase in market liquidity which resulted from a lower interest rate environment, as well as tightening of credit spreads. Revenue from interest rate contracts increased $198 million to $893 million reflecting a more volatile rate environment as well as an increase in customer flow as customers sought to lock in lower rates. Commodities contracts increased $102 million to $172 million, attributable to market volatility and increased customer flow. Foreign exchange revenue increased $5 million to $541 million. Income from equities and equity derivatives contracts decreased $168 million to $920 million, due to a slowdown in customer activity in the market. Trading account profits in 2001 included a $19 million transition adjustment gain resulting from the adoption of SFAS 133.Trading-related Revenue in Global Corporate and Investment Banking(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Trading account profits $ 1,818 $ 1,741Net interest income 1,566 1,023- --------------------------------------- -------- -------- Total trading-related revenue $ 3,384 $ 2,764- --------------------------------------- -------- --------Trading-related revenue by productForeign exchange contracts $ 541 $ 536Interest rate contracts 893 695Fixed income 858 375Equities and equity derivatives 920 1,088Commodities 172 70- --------------------------------------- -------- -------- Total trading-related revenue $ 3,384 $ 2,764- --------------------------------------- -------- --------o Investment banking income increased $67 million to $1.6 billion in 2001. Increases in securities underwriting and other investment banking income were offset by declines in syndications and advisory fees. Securities underwriting fees increased $177 million to $797 million from strong growth in high grade and high yield origination which was offset by lower equity underwriting. Syndication fees decreased $119 million to $402 million in 2001 as a result of fewer deals in the marketplace. A sluggish market for advisory services drove a decline in fees of $22 million to $276 million in 2001. Investment banking income by major activity follows:Investment Banking Income(Dollars in millions) 2001 2000 -------- --------Securities underwriting $ 797 $ 620Syndications 402 521Advisory services 276 298Other 104 73- ----------------------------- -------- -------- Total $ 1,579 $ 1,512- ----------------------------- -------- --------Equity Investmentso Noninterest income for Equity Investments decreased $824 million to $183 million in 2001 compared to the same period in 2000. This decrease resulted from a sharp decline in equity investment gains driven by weaker equity markets. o Equity investment gains decreased $763 million to $230 million, with $50 million in Principal Investing and $180 million in the strategic investments portfolio. Principal Investing recorded cash gains of $425 million, offset by impairment charges of $335 million, of which $245 million occurred in the fourth quarter of 2001, and fair value adjustment losses of $40 million. Equity investment gains in the strategic investments portfolio included a gain of $140 million in the first quarter of 2001 related to the sale of an interest in the Star Systems ATM network. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 48 Provision for Credit LossesThe provision for credit losses totaled $3.9 billion for the year ended December31, 2001 compared to $2.5 billion in 2000, excluding the impact of chargesrelated to the exit of the subprime real estate lending business. The increasein the provision for credit losses from last year was primarily due to anincrease in net charge-offs, which included $210 million in charge-offs in thefourth quarter of 2001 related to Enron Corporation. Additional provisionexpense was also recorded in 2001 to increase the allowance for credit lossesdue to deterioration in credit quality and the overall uncertainty in theeconomy. Excluding the impact of subprime real estate exit-related charges, theprovision for credit losses for 2001 was $283 million in excess of netcharge-offs. Total net charge-offs, excluding the impact of exit-relatedcharges, were $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to $2.4billion in 2000. This increase was due to higher charge-offs in the commercial -domestic portfolio due to a deterioration in credit quality stemming from theweak economic environment. Bankcard charge-offs also increased due to growth inthe portfolio, an increase in personal bankruptcy filings and a weaker economicenvironment. An exit-related provision for credit losses of $395 million, combined withan existing allowance for credit losses of $240 million, was used to write downthe subprime real estate loan portfolio to estimated market value in the thirdquarter of 2001. This resulted in charge-offs of $635 million in the consumerfinance loan portfolio. Including the exit impact, the provision for creditlosses totaled $4.3 billion and total net charge-offs were $4.2 billion for theyear ended December 31, 2001. For additional information on the allowance for credit losses, certaincredit quality ratios and credit quality information on specific loancategories, see the "Credit Risk Management and Credit Portfolio Review" sectionbeginning on page 54.Noninterest ExpenseAs presented in Table Seven, the Corporation's noninterest expense increased$2.1 billion to $20.7 billion in 2001. This increase in noninterest expense wasdriven by business exit costs, higher other general operating expense,personnel, professional fees, data processing and marketing, reflectinginvestments in growth businesses such as e-commerce, Asset Management and cardand payment businesses.Table 7 Noninterest Expense/(1)/ Percent of net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis andnoninterest income. o Personnel expense increased $429 million to $9.8 billion in 2001, primarily due to a severance charge of $150 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to ongoing efficiency improvement programs, higher revenue-related incentive compensation and increased salaries expense. The Corporation had approximately 143,000 full-time equivalent employees at both December 31, 2001 and 2000. o Marketing expense increased $61 million to $682 million for 2001, primarily due to the Corporation's national brand-building campaign and higher card marketing in Consumer and Commercial Banking. o Professional fees increased $112 million to $564 million for 2001, primarily reflecting higher consulting and other professional fees due to an increase in initiatives related to the Corporation's strategy to improve customer satisfaction, the launch of a company-wide Six Sigma quality and productivity program and implementation of a new integrated business planning process. o Data processing expense increased $109 million to $776 million for 2001, primarily due to higher outsourced processing expense as a result of the outsourcing of personnel services and higher item processing and check clearing expenses. o Other general operating expense increased $573 million to $2.7 billion in 2001, reflecting $334 million in litigation expenses in the fourth quarter of 2001 related to small settlements and an addition to the legal reserve to cover increased exposure to existing litigation, foreclosed properties expense in Corporate Other and other miscellaneous expenses throughout the Corporation.B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 49  o On August 15, 2001, the Corporation announced that it was exiting its auto leasing and subprime real estate lending businesses. As a result of this strategic decision, the Corporation recorded pre-tax business exit costs in the third quarter of 2001 of $1.3 billion in noninterest expense. Business exit costs consisted of goodwill write-offs of $685 million, auto lease residual charges of $400 million, real estate servicing asset charges of $145 million and other transaction costs of $75 million. o As part of its productivity and investment initiatives announced on July 28, 2000, the Corporation recorded a pre-tax charge of $550 million in the third quarter of 2000. Of the $550 million restructuring charge, approximately $475 million was used to cover severance and related costs and approximately $75 million was used for other costs related to process change and channel consolidation. At December 31, 2001, the reserve had been substantially utilized.Income Taxes The Corporation's income tax expense for 2001 was $3.3 billion for aneffective tax rate of 32.9 percent and for 2000 was $4.3 billion for aneffective tax rate of 36.2 percent. The decrease in the effective tax rate for2001 was due primarily to a fourth quarter tax benefit of $418 million. The taxbenefit, which resulted in a 17 percent effective tax rate for the fourthquarter of 2001, was generated as a result of the Corporation's realignment ofcertain problem loan management activities into a wholly-owned subsidiary. Thistax benefit was partially offset by the portion of goodwill write-off includedin business exit costs recorded during 2001 that is not deductible for federalor state income tax purposes. Note Seventeen of the consolidated financialstatements includes a reconciliation of expected federal income tax expensecomputed using the federal statutory rate of 35 percent to actual income taxexpense.Balance Sheet ReviewThe Corporation utilizes an integrated approach in managing its balance sheet.The following summary discusses various aspects of both on-and off-balancesheet positions as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 and for the years then ended.Cash and Cash EquivalentsAt December 31, 2001, cash and cash equivalents were $26.8 billion, a decreaseof $676 million from December 31, 2000. During 2001, net cash used in operatingactivities was $12.8 billion, net cash provided by investing activities was$37.6 billion and net cash used in financing activities was $25.3 billion. Forfurther information on cash flows, see the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flowsof the consolidated financial statements.SecuritiesThe securities portfolio serves a primary role in the Corporation's balancesheet management activities. The decision to purchase or sell securities isbased upon the current assessment of economic and financial conditions,including the interest rate environment, liquidity requirements and on- andoff-balance sheet positions. The average securities portfolio in 2001 decreased $23.8 billion to $60.4billion due to significant reductions in the portfolio in early 2001. As apercentage of total uses of funds, the average securities portfolio decreased byfour percent to nine percent in 2001. The securities portfolio at December 31, 2001 consisted ofavailable-for-sale securities totaling $84.5 billion compared to $64.7 billionat December 31, 2000. The increase in available-for-sale securities wasconcentrated in the mortgage-backed securities portfolio and was primarily aresult of loans securitized during the year and subsequently held in theportfolio. The reduction in the U.S. Treasury securities and agency debenturesin the available-for-sale portfolio was driven by portfolio repositioning duringthe year. The estimated average duration of the available-for-sale securitiesportfolio was 3.34 years at December 31, 2001 compared to 4.13 years at December31, 2000. The valuation allowance for available-for-sale and marketable equitysecurities is included in shareholders' equity. At December 31, 2001, thevaluation allowance consisted of net unrealized losses of $480 million, net ofrelated income taxes of $311 million. At December 31, 2000, the valuationallowance reflected net unrealized losses of $560 million, net of related incometaxes of $330 million. Held-to-maturity securities totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2001compared to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001 and 2000,the market value of the Corporation's held-to-maturity securities reflectedpre-tax net unrealized losses of $40 million and $54 million, respectively. Gains on sales of securities were $475 million in 2001 compared to $25million in 2000. The majority of the gains were realized in the fourth quarterof 2001 as the Corporation reduced its risk of slower prepayments in thesecurities portfolio through sales of mortgage-backed securities in anticipationof rising interest rates. See Note Three of the consolidated financialstatements for further details on securities.Loans and LeasesAs presented in Table Four, average loans and leases, the Corporation's primaryuse of funds, decreased $27.2 billion to $365.4 billion in 2001. This declinewas primarily due to a decrease in consumer finance loans as the Corporationexited the subprime real estate lending business and a decline in commercialloans as the Corporation continued efforts to reduce corporate loan levels andexit less profitable relationships. The Corporation also reviews loans on amanaged basis, which adjusts for securitizations, sales and divestitures.Average managed loans and leases decreased $1.2 billion to $378.7 billion in2001. This decrease was primarily due to lower average managed commercial loanlevels, partially offset by growth in average managed consumer loans. See NoteEight of the consolidated financial statements for additional information onmanaged loans.B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 50  Average managed commercial loans decreased $15.3 billion to $187.2 billionin 2001. The commercial-domestic portfolio decreased $12.2 billion to $135.8billion, reflecting aggressive paydowns precipitated by falling interest ratesand continuing efforts to exit less profitable relationships. The commercial-foreign portfolio declined $2.4 billion to $26.5 billion primarily due topaydowns on customer balances. Average managed consumer loans increased eight percent in 2001, reflectingincreases throughout the consumer loan portfolios. Average managed residentialmortgages increased $4.6 billion to $84.0 billion due to strong growth inbranch-originated products. Average managed bankcard loans increased $4.4billion to $24.6 billion due to an increase in new business volume and slowerbalance paydowns. Average managed home equity lines increased $2.5 billion to$22.0 billion, due to the impact of new marketing programs implemented in mid2000. Average managed consumer finance loans increased $2.3 billion to $18.6billion, and average managed direct/indirect consumer loans increased $308million to $40.1 billion. A significant source of liquidity for the Corporation is the repayments andmaturities of loans. Table Eight presents the contractual maturity distributionand interest sensitivity of selected loan categories at December 31, 2001, andindicates that approximately 44 percent of the selected loans had maturities ofone year or less. The securitization and sale of certain loans and the use ofloans as collateral in asset-backed financing arrangements are also sources ofliquidity.Table 8 Selected Loan Maturity Data/(1)//(1)/ Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractualterms./(2)/ Loan maturities include consumer and commercial foreign loans.DepositsTable Four provides information on the average amounts of deposits and the ratespaid by deposit category. Through the Corporation's diverse retail bankingnetwork, deposits remain a primary source of funds for the Corporation. Averagedeposits increased $9.4 billion to $362.7 billion in 2001 due to a $6.8 billionincrease in average domestic interest-bearing deposits and a $6.4 billionincrease in average total noninterest-bearing deposits, partially offset by a$3.8 billion decrease in average foreign interest-bearing deposits. Average coredeposits, which exclude negotiable CDs, public funds, other domestic timedeposits, and foreign interest-bearing deposits, increased $14.9 billion to$306.9 billion in 2001. The increase in average core deposits was primarilydriven by an increase in money market savings accounts and noninterest-bearingdeposits, partially offset by a decline in CDs and savings accounts. Theincrease in money market savings accounts was driven by the Corporation'sdeposit pricing initiative to offer more competitive money market savings rates.As a percentage of total sources of funds, average core deposits increased byfour percent to 47 percent in 2001. At December 31, 2001, core deposits exceededloans and leases. See Note Nine of the consolidated financial statements forfurther details on deposits.Short-Term BorrowingsThe Corporation uses short-term borrowings as a funding source and in itsmanagement of interest rate risk. Table Nine presents the categories ofshort-term borrowings. During 2001, total average short-term borrowings decreased $39.0 billion to$92.5 billion from $131.5 billion in 2000. This decline was primarily due todecreases in repurchase agreements, short-term notes payable and commercialpaper driven by lower funding needs. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 51 Table 9 Short-Term BorrowingsLong-Term Debt and Trust Preferred SecuritiesLong-term debt decreased $5.0 billion to $62.5 billion at December 31, 2001,from $67.5 billion at December 31, 2000. The overall decline in long-term debtreflected a decline in average assets, but was partially offset by additionalissuances to maintain liquidity, repay maturing debt and fund share repurchases.During 2001, the Corporation issued, domestically and internationally, $14.9billion in long-term senior and subordinated debt, an $8.6 billion decrease from$23.5 billion during 2000. The Corporation issued $575 million of trustpreferred securities in 2001. There were no trust preferred securities issued in2000. See Notes Ten and Eleven of the consolidated financial statements forfurther details on long-term debt and trust preferred securities, respectively. Subsequent to December 31, 2001, the Corporation issued $1.7 billion oflong-term senior and subordinated debt, with maturities ranging from 2007 to2027. Bank of America Corporation, as successor to NationsBank Corporation,announced the redemption of its 7.84 percent Trust Originated PreferredSecurities issued by NB Capital Trust I and its 7.75 percent Trust OriginatedPreferred Securities issued by BankAmerica Capital I. The redemption date isMarch 15, 2002 with a redemption price of $25 per security plus accrued andunpaid distributions, if any, up to but excluding the redemption date of March15, 2002. Subsequent to December 31, 2001, BAC Capital Trust II, a wholly-ownedgrantor trust of Bank of America Corporation, issued $900 million in capitalsecurities. The annual dividend rate is 7 percent and is paid quarterly onFebruary 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year, commencing May 1, 2002. The debt ratings of the Corporation and Bank of America, N.A at December31, 2001 are reflected in the following table:Debt and Lease ObligationsThe Corporation has contractual obligations to make future payments on debt andlease agreements. Long-term debt, capital leases and trust preferred securitiesare reflected on the balance sheet, whereas, operating lease obligations foroffice space and equipment are not recorded on the balance sheet. These types ofobligations are more fully discussed in Notes Ten and Eleven of the consolidatedfinancial statements. Total debt and lease obligations at December 31, 2001included:/(1)/ Includes principal paymentsonly. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 52 Credit Extension CommitmentsMany of the Corporation's lending relationships, including those with commercialand consumer customers, contain both funded and unfunded elements. The unfundedcomponent of these commitments is not recorded on the Corporation's balancesheet. These commitments are more fully discussed in Note Twelve of theconsolidated financial statements. The table below summarizes the total unfundedcredit extension, or off-balance sheet, commitment amounts by expiration date. /(1)/ Other loan commitments include equity commitments of approximately $2.7 billion primarily related to obligations to fund existing venture capital equity investments.Off-Balance Sheet Financing Entity CommitmentsIn the normal course of business, the Corporation also supports its customers'financing needs through facilitating their access to the commercial papermarkets. These markets provide an attractive, lower cost financing alternativefor the Corporation's customers. These customers sell assets, such as high-gradetrade or other receivables or leases, to a commercial paper financing entity,which in turn issues high-grade short-term commercial paper that iscollateralized by such assets. The Corporation facilitates these transactionsand bills and collects fees from the financing entity for the services itprovides including administration, trust services and marketing the commercialpaper. In addition, the Corporation receives fees for providing liquidity andstandby letters of credit or similar loss protection commitments to thefinancing entities. The Corporation manages its credit risk on these commitmentsby subjecting them to normal underwriting and risk management processes. AtDecember 31, 2001 and 2000, the Corporation had off-balance sheet liquiditycommitments and standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees tothese financing entities of $36.1 billion and $27.6 billion, respectively.Substantially all of these liquidity commitments and standby letters of creditand other financial guarantees mature within one year. These amounts areincluded in total credit extension commitments in the table above. Net revenuesearned from fees associated with these financing entities were approximately$223 million and $200 million in 2001 and 2000, respectively. In addition, to preserve its own liquidity and control its capitalposition, the Corporation from time to time will seek alternative fundingsources. To accomplish this, the Corporation will sell or fund assets using anoff-balance sheet financing entity, which in turn, issues collateralizedcommercial paper or structured notes to third-party market participants. TheCorporation may provide liquidity and standby letters of credit or similar lossprotection commitments to the financing entity, or it may enter into aderivative with the entity whereby the Corporation assumes certain market risk.Similar to that discussed above, the Corporation receives fees for the servicesit provides to the financing entity, and it manages any market risk oncommitments or derivatives through normal underwriting and risk managementprocesses. Derivative activity related to these financing entities is includedin Note Five of the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2001 and2000, the Corporation had off-balance sheet liquidity commitments and standbyletters of credit and other financial guarantees to these financing entities of$3.9 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. Substantially all of theseliquidity commitments and standby letters of credit and other financialguarantees mature within one year. These amounts are included in total creditextension commitments in the table above. Net revenues earned from feesassociated with these financing entities were $49 million and $51 million in2001 and 2000, respectively. Because the Corporation provides liquidity and credit support to thesefinancing entities, the Corporation's credit ratings and changes thereto willaffect the borrowing cost and liquidity of these entities. In addition,significant changes in counterparty asset valuation and credit standing may alsoaffect the liquidity of the commercial paper issuance. Further, disruption inthe commercial paper markets may result in the Corporation having to fund underthese commitments and letters of credit discussed above. These risks, along withall other credit and liquidity risks, are managed by the Corporation within itspolicies and practices. See Note One of the consolidated financial statementsfor an additional discussion of off-balance sheet financing entities.Capital Resources and Capital ManagementShareholders' equity at December 31, 2001 was $48.5 billion compared to $47.6billion at December 31, 2000, an increase of $892 million. The increase wasprimarily due to $3.2 billion of net earnings (net income less dividends), $1.1billion of net gains on derivatives and $1.1 billion in common stock issuedunder employee plans, partially offset by the repurchase of common stock forapproximately $4.7 billion. The Tier 1 Capital Ratio rose 80 basis points fromDecember 31, 2000 to 8.30 percent. At December 31, 2001, the Corporation wasclassified as well-capitalized. On December 11, 2001, the Corporation's Board of Directors (the Board)authorized a new stock repurchase program of up to 130 million shares of theCorporation's common stock at an aggregate cost of up to $10.0 billion. Noshares had been repurchased under the 2001 program at December 31, 2001. Theremaining buyback authority for common stock under the 2000 repurchase programtotaled $2.1 billion, or two million shares. During 2001, the Corporationrepurchased approximately 82 million shares of its common stock in open marketrepurchases at an average per-share price of $57.58, B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 53 which reduced shareholders' equity by $4.7 billion and increased earnings pershare by approximately $0.08 for the year ended December 31, 2001. Managementanticipates it will continue to repurchase shares at least equal to sharesissued under its various stock option plans. See Note Thirteen of theconsolidated financial statements for additional disclosures related to therepurchase program. On October 24, 2001, the Board approved a $0.04 per share, or sevenpercent, increase in the quarterly common dividend. This increase brings thecommon dividend to $0.60 per share for the fourth quarter of 2001 and $2.28 pershare for the year ended December 31, 2001. The regulatory capital ratios of the Corporation and Bank of America, N.A.,along with a description of the components of risk-based capital, capitaladequacy requirements and prompt corrective action provisions, are included inNote Fourteen of the consolidated financial statements.Risk Management OverviewThe Corporation's goal in managing risk is to produce appropriate risk-adjustedreturns, reduce the wide volatility in earnings and increase shareholder value.The Corporation believes it has a governance structure and risk managementapproach in place in order to reach that goal. Processes are designed to alignthe Corporation's measures for business success with the measures for return,growth and risk. Further, these processes enable the Corporation to bettercommunicate with its associates the corporate appetite for risk, manage sourcesof earnings' volatility and manage appropriate capital levels. The Corporation manages risk by adherence to the following key principles: o Emphasize that individual decision-making and accountability are the cornerstone. o Include risk assessments in all business units. o Appropriate limits, policies, procedures and measures are in place. o Independently test, verify and evaluate controls. o Identify and minimize the sources of earnings' volatility. o Use SVA as a key financial measure to evaluate businesses and to direct capital. Each of these key principles contributes to a more risk/return focusedculture. Importantly, the Corporation believes SVA leads to better risk/returndecisioning and to a lower risk profile. Reinforcing the cost of capital amongthe Corporation's business segments creates critical assessments of theCorporation's uses of capital. The cost of capital for each business is based onan assessment of its specific credit, market and operational risk. The goal of the governance structure is to enable management to activelybalance risk and return. o The Chief Financial Officer has oversight responsibility for the soundness of the Corporation's capitalization and earnings. o The Chief Risk Officer has enterprise-wide oversight of market, credit and operational risks. o The business unit leaders have responsibility for meeting corporate performance objectives within the boundaries of their allocated risk position. The Corporation manages day-to-day risk-taking through three seniorexecutive committees. The Risk and Capital Committee determines the corporateobjectives for each performance measure, allocates capital, sets aggregate risklevels and plans the use of capital. It also coordinates two committeesresponsible for market and credit risk. The Asset and Liability Committeereviews aggregate balance sheet exposures, including trading positions,recommends balance sheet capital allocations and recommends changes in themarket risk profile. The Credit Risk Committee reviews business asset quality,portfolio management results and industry concentrations and limits. The Board of Directors addresses risk in three ways. The Finance Committeeoversees both market and credit risk through reports from the Asset andLiability Committee and the Credit Risk Committee. The Asset Quality Committeeof the Board also reviews credit risk, and the Audit Committee of the Boardreviews the scope and coverage of the external audit and internal auditactivities. Senior management and the Board of Directors oversight builds on thecornerstone of the Corporation's corporate governance: individualdecision-making and accountability. The Corporation's corporate governance isdesigned so that individuals at all levels are delegated appropriate authority,take appropriate action and are accountable for actions taken. Whereverpractical, decision-making authority is delegated as close to the customer aspossible. The following sections, Credit Risk Management and Credit Portfolio Review,Market Risk Management and Liquidity Risk Management, provide specificinformation on the Corporation's processes and current risk assessment in eacharea as of December 31, 2001 and 2000.Credit Risk Management and Credit Portfolio ReviewIn conducting business activities, the Corporation is exposed to the risk thatborrowers or counterparties may default on their obligations to the Corporation.This exposure exists in both on-and off-balance sheet relationships. Creditrisk arises through the extension of loans and leases, certain securities,off-balance sheet letters of credit and financial guarantees, unfunded loancommitments and through counterparty exposure on trading and capital markets transactions. To manage both on-and off-balance sheet credit risk, the RiskManagement group, which reports to the Chief Risk Officer, establishes policiesand procedures and communicates, implements and monitors the application ofthese throughout the Corporation. The Corporation uses statistical techniques and modeling to estimate bothexpected losses and unexpected losses for each segment of the portfolio. Theexpected loss drives the periodic credit cost charged to earnings for managementreporting purposes, and the unexpected loss estimate drives the capitalallocation to each business unit. Both the expected loss and unexpected loss areincorporated into each business unit's SVA measurement. As a result, the overallcredit risk profile of each business unit is an important factor in assessingits performance. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 54  The Corporation's overall objective in managing credit risk is to minimizethe adverse impact of any single event or set of occurrences. To achieve thisobjective, the Risk Management group works with lending officers, tradingpersonnel and various other line personnel in areas that conduct activitiesinvolving credit risk to maintain a credit risk profile that is diverse in termsof product type, industry concentration, geographic distribution and borrower orcounterparty concentration. The Corporation manages credit exposure to individual borrowers andcounterparties on an aggregate basis including loans and leases, securities,letters of credit, bankers' acceptances, derivatives and unfunded commitments.The creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counterparties is determined byexperienced personnel, and limits are established for the total credit exposureto any one borrower or counterparty. Credit limits are subject to varying levelsof approval by senior line personnel and credit risk management. The approving credit officer assigns borrowers or counterparties an initialrisk rating which is based primarily on an analysis of each borrower's financialcapacity in conjunction with industry and economic trends. Risk ratings aresubject to review and validation by the independent credit review group.Approvals are made based upon the perceived level of inherent credit riskspecific to the transaction and the counterparty and are reviewed forappropriateness by senior line and credit risk personnel. Credits are monitoredby line and credit risk management personnel for deterioration in a borrower'sor counterparty's financial condition which would impact the ability of theborrower or counterparty to perform under the contract. Risk ratings areadjusted as necessary, and the Corporation seeks to reduce exposure in suchsituations where appropriate. The Corporation also has a goal of managing exposure to a single borrower,industry, product-type, country or other concentration through syndications ofcredits, credit derivatives, participations, loan sales and securitizations.Through the Global Corporate and Investment Banking segment, the Corporation isa major participant in the syndications market. In a syndicated facility, eachparticipating lender funds only its portion of the syndicated facility,therefore limiting its exposure to the borrower. The Corporation's strategyremains one of origination for distribution. Additionally, the SVA disciplinediscourages the retention of loan assets that do not generate a positive returnabove the cost of risk-adjusted capital. For consumer and small business lending, credit scoring systems areutilized to determine the relative risk of new underwritings and providestandards for extensions of credit. Consumer portfolio credit risk is monitoredprimarily using statistical models and reviews of actual payment experience inan attempt to predict portfolio behavior. In some credit situations, the Corporation obtains collateral to supportcredit extensions and commitments. Generally, such collateral is in the form ofreal and/or personal property, cash on deposit or other liquid instruments. Incertain circumstances, the Corporation obtains real property as security forsome loans that are made on the general creditworthiness of the borrower andwhose proceeds were not used for real estate-related purposes. An independent Credit Review group provides executive management, the Boardof Directors and the Credit Risk Committee with an evaluation of portfolioquality and the effectiveness of the credit management process. The groupconducts ongoing reviews of credit activities and portfolios throughtransactional and process reviews, re-examining on a regular basis riskassessments for credit exposures and overall compliance with policy.Loans and Leases Portfolio ReviewThe Corporation's credit exposure is focused in its loans and leases portfolio,which totaled $329.2 billion and $392.2 billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000,respectively. In addition, there are off-balance sheet commitments to fundloans, which totaled $295.2 billion and $315.2 billion at December 31, 2001 and2000, respectively. In an effort to minimize the adverse impact of any singleevent or set of occurrences, the Corporation strives to maintain a diversecredit portfolio. Table Ten presents the loans and leases by category.Additional information on the Corporation's industry, real estate and foreignexposures can be found in the Concentrations of Credit Risk section beginning onpage 61. As a result of the exit of the auto leasing and subprime real estatelending businesses, the Corporation immediately ceased originations of autoleases and subprime real estate loans. The Corporation intends to allow its autolease portfolio to run off over its remaining term of three to four years. TheCorporation began to execute its exit strategy for the subprime real estate loanportfolio through securitizations and sales in the fourth quarter of 2001.Additional information on the exit of these consumer finance businesses can befound in Notes Two and Six of the consolidated financial statements.Table 10 Loans and Leases B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 55 Commercial PortfolioAt December 31, 2001 and 2000, total commercial loans outstanding totaled $163.9billion and $203.5 billion, respectively. Domestic commercial loans, includingcommercial real estate, accounted for 86 percent and 85 percent of totalcommercial loans at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Commercial-domestic loans outstanding totaled $118.2 billion and $146.0billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Corporation hadcommercial-domestic loan net charge-offs of $1.9 billion for 2001, compared to$1.3 billion for 2000. Net charge-offs increased primarily due to deteriorationin credit quality stemming from the weak economic environment, the sale ofdistressed loans in 2001 and fourth quarter charge-offs of $210 million relatedto Enron Corporation. In addition to the Enron loan charge-offs, the Corporationalso wrote off $21 million in Enron securities related to a collateralized loanobligation. Nonperforming commercial-domestic loans were $3.1 billion, or 2.64percent of commercial-domestic loans, at December 31, 2001, compared to $2.8billion, or 1.90 percent, at December 31, 2000. The increase in nonperformingloans was primarily driven by the weakening economic environment which impactedvarious industries and business segments, partially offset by sales ofnonperforming loans. In addition, the remaining Enron loan balance of $226million, of which $42 million was unsecured, was classified as nonperformingsubsequent to the charge-off in the fourth quarter. Commercial-domestic loanspast due 90 days or more and still accruing interest were $175 million atDecember 31, 2001, compared to $141 million at December 31, 2000. Commercial-foreign loans outstanding totaled $23.0 billion and $31.1billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The Corporation hadcommercial-foreign loan net charge-offs for 2001 of $208 million, compared to$86 million for 2000. Nonperforming commercial-foreign loans were $461 million,or 2.00 percent of commercial-foreign loans, at December 31, 2001, compared to$486 million, or 1.56 percent, at December 31, 2000. Commercial-foreign loanspast due 90 days or more and still accruing interest were $6 million at December31, 2001 compared to $37 million at December 31, 2000. For additionalinformation, see the International Exposure discussion beginning on page 63. Commercial real estate-domestic loans totaled $22.3 billion and $26.2billion at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net charge-offs were $39million and $13 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Nonperformingcommercial real estate-domestic loans were $240 million, or 1.08 percent ofcommercial real estate-domestic loans, at December 31, 2001, compared to $236million, or 0.90 percent, at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001, commercialreal estate-domestic loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interestwere $40 million compared to $16 million at December 31, 2000. Table Seventeendisplays commercial real estate loans by geographic region and property type,including the portion of such loans which are nonperforming and other realestate credit exposures. Table Eighteen presents aggregate commercial loan and lease exposures bycertain significant industries.Consumer PortfolioAt December 31, 2001 and 2000, total consumer loans outstanding totaled $165.3billion and $188.7 billion, respectively. Approximately 65 percent and 70percent of these loans were secured by first and second mortgages on residentialreal estate at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 1999, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)issued the Uniform Classification and Account Management Policy (the Policy)which provides guidance for and promotes consistency among banks on thecharge-off treatment of delinquent and bankruptcy-related consumer loans. TheCorporation implemented the Policy in the fourth quarter of 2000, which resultedin accelerated charge-offs of $104 million across several product types in theconsumer loan portfolio. Residential mortgage loans decreased to $78.2 billion at December 31, 2001compared to $84.4 billion at December 31, 2000 as growth in retail mortgageoriginations was more than offset by the impact of securitizations of $52.9billion. Net charge-offs on residential mortgage loans were $26 million for2001. Nonperforming residential mortgage loans increased $5 million to $556million at December 31, 2001. Home equity lines increased to $22.1 billion at December 31, 2001 comparedto $21.6 billion at December 31, 2000. Net charge-offs on home equity lines were$19 million and $20 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Nonperforming homeequity lines increased to $80 million at December 31, 2001 compared to $32million at December 31, 2000. Consumer finance loans outstanding totaled $5.3 billion and $25.8 billionat December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Consumer finance nonperformingloans decreased to $9 million at December 31, 2001 compared to $1.1 billion atDecember 31, 2000. These decreases were due to the transfer of approximately$21.4 billion of subprime real estate loans, of which $1.2 billion wasnonperforming, to loans held for sale as a result of the exit of the subprimereal estate lending business in the third quarter of 2001. The Corporation hadconsumer finance net charge-offs of $929 million for 2001 compared to $266million for 2000. The increase in net charge-offs primarily reflectedexit-related charge-offs of $635 million that were used to write down thesubprime real estate loan portfolio to estimated market value in the thirdquarter of 2001 and a weakened economic environment. Bankcard receivables increased to $19.9 billion at December 31, 2001compared to $14.1 billion at December 31, 2000. This increase was due to newaccount growth and increased purchase volume on existing accounts. Netcharge-offs on bankcard receivables for 2001 were $672 million compared to $338million for 2000. Managed bankcard net charge-offs increased $230 million to$1.2 billion, while the managed net charge-off ratio increased 10 basis pointsto 4.76 percent for 2001. The increase in net charge-offs was primarily a resultof growth in the portfolio outstandings, an increase in personal bankruptcyfilings and a weaker economic environment. Bankcard loans past due 90 days ormore and still accruing interest were $332 million at December 31, 2001 comparedto $191 million at December 31, 2000. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 56  Other consumer loans, which include direct and indirect consumer andforeign consumer loans, were $39.7 and $42.8 billion at December 31, 2001 and2000, respectively. Direct and indirect consumer loan net charge-offs were $349million for 2001 compared to $324 million for 2000. Foreign consumer loan netcharge-offs were $5 million and $3 million for 2001 and 2000, respectively. Excluding bankcard, total consumer loans past due 90 days or more and stillaccruing interest were $127 million at December 31, 2001, compared to $110million at December 31, 2000.Nonperforming Assets As presented in Table Eleven, nonperforming assets decreased to $4.9billion at December 31, 2001 from $5.5 billion at December 31, 2000.Nonperforming loans decreased to $4.5 billion at December 31, 2001 from $5.2billion at December 31, 2000. The decrease in nonperforming loans was primarilydue to the transfer of $1.2 billion of nonperforming subprime real estate loansfrom the loans and leases portfolio to loans held for sale included in otherassets related to the decision to exit the subprime real estate lending businessin 2001 and due to sales of nonperforming commercial - domestic and residentialmortgage loans in 2001. These decreases were partially offset by nonperformingnet inflows in the commercial - domestic, residential mortgage and home equitylines portfolios. Credit deterioration in loans continued as companies andindividuals were affected by the weakening economic environment. Foreclosedproperties increased to $402 million at December 31, 2001 compared to $249million at December 31, 2000. This increase was driven by the exit of thesubprime real estate lending business in the third quarter of 2001./(1)/ Balance does not include $1.0 billion and $124 million of loans held forsale, included in other assets at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively,which would have been classified as non-performing had they been included inloans. The Corporation had approximately $48 million and $390 million oftroubled debt restructured loans at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively,which were accruing interest and were not included in nonperforming assets./(2)/ In 2001, $1.2 billion of nonperforming loans were transferred to loansheld for sale as a result of the exit of the subprime real estate lendingbusiness. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 57 Table Twelve presents the additions to and reductions in nonperforming assets inthe commercial and consumer portfolios during the most recent five quarters./(1)/ Certain loan products, including commercial bankcard, consumer bankcardand other unsecured loans, are not classified as nonperforming; therefore, thecharge-offs on these loans are not included above./(2)/ Includes assets held for sale that were foreclosed and transferred toforeclosed properties./(3)/ Primarily related to the exit of the subprime real estate lending businessin the third quarter of 2001.In order to respond when deterioration of a credit occurs, internal loan workoutunits are devoted to providing specialized expertise and full-time managementand/or collection of certain nonperforming assets as well as certain performingloans. Management believes focused collection strategies and a proactiveapproach to managing overall problem assets expedites the disposition,collection and renegotiation of nonperforming and other lower-quality assets.During 2001, the Corporation realigned its operations that manage certaindistressed assets through the funding of Banc of America Strategic Solutions,Inc. (SSI), a wholly-owned subsidiary. The purpose of this subsidiary is toprovide a more effective means of problem asset resolution and to coordinateexit strategies, including bulk sales, collateralized debt obligations and otherresolutions of domestic commercial distressed assets. The assets and liabilitiestransferred to SSI were consolidated with the Corporation at December 31, 2001.During 2001, the Corporation sold approximately $2.1 billion of nonperformingand poorly performing commercial and consumer loans. Net charge-offs ofapproximately $400 million were recorded related to these sales. The Corporationexpects to continue to aggressively manage credit risk and to exit problemcredits where practical. The Corporation's investment in specific loans that were considered to beimpaired was $3.9 billion at both December 31, 2001 and 2000. Commercial -domestic impaired loans increased $247 million to $3.1 billion at December 31,2001 compared to December 31, 2000. Commercial -foreign impaired loans decreased$20 million to $501 million. Commercial real estate - domestic impaired loansdecreased $172 million to $240 million.Loans Past Due 90 Days or More and Still Accruing InterestTable Thirteen presents total loans past due 90 days or more and still accruinginterest. At December 31, 2001, loans past due 90 days or more and stillaccruing interest were $680 million compared to $495 million atDecember 31, 2000.B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 58 /(1)/ Represents amounts past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest asa percentage of loans and leases for each loan category.Allowance for Credit LossesThe Corporation performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its lendingportfolios to identify inherent risks and to assess the overall collectibilityof those portfolios. The allowance on certain homogeneous loan portfolios, whichgenerally consist of consumer loans, is based on aggregated portfolio segmentevaluations generally by loan type. Loss forecast models are utilized for thesesegments which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited tohistorical loss experience, anticipated defaults or foreclosures based onportfolio trends, delinquencies and credit scores, and expected loss factors byloan type. The remaining portfolios are reviewed on an individual loan basis.Loans subject to individual reviews are analyzed and segregated by riskaccording to the Corporation's internal risk rating scale. These riskclassifications, in conjunction with an analysis of historical loss experience,current economic conditions and performance trends within specific portfoliosegments, and any other pertinent information (including individual valuationson nonperforming loans in accordance with Statement of Financial AccountingStandards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan") result inthe estimation of specific allowances for credit losses. The Corporation hasprocedures in place to monitor differences between estimated and actual incurredcredit losses. These procedures include detailed periodic assessments by seniormanagement of both individual loans and credit portfolios and the models used toestimate incurred credit losses in those portfolios. Portions of the allowance for credit losses are assigned to cover theestimated probable incurred credit losses in each loan and lease category basedon the results of the Corporation's detail review process described above. Theassigned portion continues to be weighted toward the commercial loan portfolio,which reflected a higher level of nonperforming loans and the potential forhigher individual losses. The remaining or unassigned portion of the allowancefor credit losses, determined separately from the procedures outlined above,addresses certain industry and geographic concentrations, including globaleconomic conditions. This procedure helps to minimize the risk related to themargin of imprecision inherent in the estimation of the assigned allowances forcredit losses. Due to the subjectivity involved in the determination of theunassigned portion of the allowance for credit losses, the relationship of theunassigned component to the total allowance for credit losses may fluctuate fromperiod to period. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for creditlosses based on the combined total of the assigned and unassigned components. Additions to the allowance for credit losses are made by charges to theprovision for credit losses. Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible arecharged against the allowance for credit losses. Recoveries of previouslycharged off amounts are credited to the allowance for credit losses. Excluding the impact of charges related to the exit of the subprime realestate lending business, the provision for credit losses totaled $3.9 billionfor the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to $2.5 billion in 2000. Theincrease in the provision for credit losses from last year was primarily due toan increase in net charge-offs, which included $210 million in charge-offsrelated to Enron. Additional provision expense was also recorded in 2001 toincrease the allowance for credit losses due to deterioration in credit qualityand the overall uncertainty in the economy. Excluding the impact of exit-relatedcharges, the provision for credit losses for 2001 was $283 million in excess ofnet charge-offs. Total net charge-offs, excluding the impact of exit-relatedcharges, were $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001 compared to $2.4billion in 2000. This increase was due to higher charge-offs in thecommercial-domestic portfolio and deterioration in credit quality stemmingfrom the weak economic environment. Bankcard charge-offs also increased due togrowth in the portfolio, an increase in personal bankruptcy filings and aweaker economic environment. An exit-related provision for credit losses of $395 million, combined withan existing allowance for credit losses of $240 million, was used to write downthe subprime real estate loan portfolio to estimated market value in the thirdquarter of 2001. This resulted in charge-offs of $635 million in the consumerfinance loan portfolio. Including the exit impact, the provision for creditlosses totaled $4.3 billion and total net charge-offs were $4.2 billion for theyear ended December 31, 2001. The nature of the process by which the Corporation determines theappropriate allowance for credit losses requires the exercise of considerablejudgment. After review of all relevant matters affecting loan collectibility,management believes that the allowance for credit losses is appropriate givenits analysis of estimated incurred credit losses at December 31, 2001. TableFourteen presents the activity in the allowance for credit losses for the mostrecent five years.B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 59 /(1)/ Includes $635 million related to the exit of the subprime real estatelending business in 2001./(2)/ Includes $395 million related to the exit of thesubprime real estate lending business in 2001. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 60 Table 15 Net Charge-offs n/m = not meaningful/(1)/ Percentage amounts are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases or managed loans for each loan category./(2)/ Includes $635 million related to the exit of the subprime real estate lending business in 2001./(3)/ Includes both on-balance sheet and securitized loans.Table 16 Allocation of the Allowance for Credit LossesThe Corporation expects charge-offs in 2002 to meet or exceed annualized fourthquarter 2001 net charge-offs of $3.9 billion, excluding Enron charge-offs of$210 million. An increase in consumer charge-offs, mainly bankcard, is expectedto drive the increase for the year while commercial charge-offs are alsoexpected to remain at high levels. Provision expense is expected to track netcharge-offs in 2002. Nonperforming assets are expected to rise at least throughthe first half of 2002, although levels will fluctuate depending on the level ofasset sales and charge-offs.Concentrations of Credit RiskIn an effort to minimize the adverse impact of any single event or set ofoccurrences, the Corporation strives to maintain a diverse credit portfolio asoutlined in Tables Seventeen, Eighteen, Nineteen and Twenty. The Corporation maintains a diverse commercial loan portfolio, representing50 percent of total loans and leases at December 31, 2001. The largestconcentration is in commercial real estate, which represents seven percent oftotal loans and leases at December 31, 2001. The exposures presented in TableSeventeen represent credit extensions for real estate-related purposes toborrowers or counterparties who are primarily in the real estate development orinvestment business and for which the ultimate repayment of the credit isdependent on the sale, lease, rental or refinancing of the real estate. Theexposures included in the table do not include credit extensions which were madeon the general creditworthiness of the borrower, for which real estate wasobtained as security and for which the ultimate repayment of the credit is notdependent on the sale, lease, rental or refinancing of the real estate.Accordingly, the exposures presented do not include commercial loans secured byowner-occupied real estate, except where the borrower is a real estatedeveloper. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 61 /(1)/ Foreclosed properties include commercial real estate loans only./(2)/ Other credit exposures include letters of credit and loans held for sale./(3)/ Distribution based on geographic location of collateral.Table Eighteen presents the ten largest industries included in the commercialloan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2001 and the respective balances atDecember 31, 2000. Total commercial loans outstanding, excluding commercial realestate loans, comprised 43 percent and 45 percent of total loans and leases atDecember 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. No commercial industry concentrationis greater than 3.1 percent of total loans and leases.Table 18 Significant Industry Loans and Leases/(1)//(1)/ Includes only non-real estate commercial loans and leases./(2)/ During 2001, the Corporation revised its healthcare industry definition toinclude pharmaceuticals. The December 31, 2000 outstanding balance andpercentage have been restated to reflect this change. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 62 International ExposureThrough its credit and market risk management activities, the Corporation hasbeen devoting particular attention to those countries that have been negativelyimpacted by global economic pressure in all three regions where the Corporationhas exposure: Asia, Europe and Latin America. In connection with its efforts to maintain a diversified portfolio, theCorporation limits its exposure to any one geographic region or country andmonitors this exposure on a continuous basis. Table Nineteen sets forth selectedregional foreign exposure at December 31, 2001 and is based on the FFIEC'sinstructions for periodic reporting of foreign exposure. The countries selectedrepresent those that are considered as having higher credit and foreign exchangerisk. At December 31, 2001, the Corporation's total exposure to these selectcountries was $21.9 billion, a decrease of $8.4 billion from December 31, 2000,primarily due to reductions in exposure to Japan and to most other countries inAsia, Europe and Latin America. During 2001, Argentina began to experience significant economic turmoil anddeterioration. In response to this and as part of the Corporation's ongoing,normal risk management process, the Corporation has reduced its credit exposureto Argentina. At December 31, 2001, the Corporation had $745 million of creditand other exposure in Argentina. Of this amount, $478 million representedtraditional credit exposure (loans, letters of credit, etc.) predominantly toArgentine subsidiaries of foreign multinational companies. The Argentinegovernment has defaulted on its bonds. At December 31, 2001, the Corporation'scredit exposure related to Argentine government bonds was approximately $60million. The Corporation continues to assess its credit exposure to Argentina.Table 19 Selected Regional Foreign Exposure/(1)/ Includes acceptances, standby letters of credit, commercial letters ofcredit, and formal guarantees./(2)/ Cross-border exposure includes amounts payable to the Corporation byresidents of countries other than the one in which the credit is booked,regardless of the currency in which the claim is denominated, consistent withFFIEC reporting rules./(3)/ Gross local country exposure includes amounts payable to the Corporationby residents of countries in which the credit is booked, regardless of thecurrency in which the claim is denominated. Management does not net localfunding or liabilities against local exposures as allowed by the FFIEC. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 63 At December 31, 2001, the Corporation had cross border exposure in excess of onepercent of total assets in the two countries detailed in Table Twenty. Theexposure in the United Kingdom and Germany reflects the Corporation's efforts todiversify its portfolio in the industrialized countries where its clientsoperate. In light of the increased risks perceived in Japan, the Corporation hasreduced its exposure to less than 0.5 percent of its total assets.Table 20 Exposure Exceeding One Percent of Total Assets/(1)//(2)//(1)/ Exposure includes cross-border claims by the Corporation's foreign officesas follows: loans, accrued interest receivable, acceptances, time depositsplaced, trading account assets, available-for-sale (at fair value) andheld-to-maturity (at cost) securities, other interest-earning investments andother monetary assets. Amounts also include derivative-dealer assets, unusedcommitments, standby letters of credit, commercial letters of credit and formalguarantees./(2)/ Sector definitions are based on the FFIEC instructions for preparing theCountry Exposure Report.Market Risk ManagementOverviewThe Corporation is exposed to market risk as a consequence of the normal courseof conducting its business activities. Examples of these business activitiesinclude market making, underwriting, proprietary trading, and asset/liabilitymanagement in interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, commodity and creditmarkets, along with any associated derivative products. Market risk is thepotential of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates, prices andliquidity. Financial products that expose the Corporation to market risk includesecurities, loans, deposits, debt and derivative financial instruments such asfutures, forwards, swaps, options and other financial instruments with similarcharacteristics. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that the Corporationmay not be able to satisfy current or future financial commitments or that theCorporation may be more reliant on alternative funding sources such as long-termdebt.Trading PortfolioThe Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day management of market riskto the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee has structured a system ofindependent checks, balances and reporting in order to ensure that the Board'sdisposition toward market risk is not compromised. The objective of the Corporation's Risk Management group (Risk Management)is to provide senior management with independent, timely assessments of thebottom line impacts of all market risks facing the Corporation and to monitorthose impacts against trading limits. Risk Management monitors the changingaggregate position of the Corporation and projects the profit and loss levelsthat would result from both normal and extreme market moves. In addition, RiskManagement is responsible for ensuring that appropriate policies and proceduresthat conform to the Board's risk preferences are in place and enforced. Thesepolicies and procedures encompass the limit process, risk reporting, new productreview and model review. Trading account profits represent the net amount earned from theCorporation's trading positions, which include trading account assets andliabilities as well as derivative positions and mortgage banking assets. Thesetransactions include positions to meet customer demand as well as for theCorporation's own trading account. Trading positions are taken in a diverserange of financial instruments and markets. The profitability of these tradingpositions is largely dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the levelof risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements.Histogram of Daily Market Risk-Related RevenueTwelve Months Ended December 31, 2001[GRAPHIC]Daily Market Risk-Related Revenue Number(Dollars in millions) of Days- ----------------------------------------------------------Less than $(10) 11$(10) to $0 18$0 to $10 47$10 to $20 84$20 to $30 61$30 to $40 18$40 to $50 7Greater than $50 4 B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 64  Market risk-related revenue includes trading account profits andtrading-related net interest income, which encompass both proprietary tradingand customer-related activities. During 2001, the Corporation has continued itsefforts to build on its client franchise and reduce the proportion ofproprietary trading revenue to total revenue. The results of these efforts canbe seen in the histogram above. In 2001, the Corporation recorded positive dailymarket risk-related revenue for 221 of 250 trading days. Furthermore, of the 29days that showed negative revenue, only 11 days were greater than $10 million.Value at RiskValue at Risk (VAR) is the key measure of market risk for the Corporation. VARrepresents the maximum amount that the Corporation has placed at risk of loss,with a 99 percent degree of confidence, in the course of its risk takingactivities. Its purpose is to describe the amount of capital required to absorbpotential losses from adverse market movements. Given the 99 percent confidenceinterval captured by VAR, market risk-related revenue or losses would beexpected to exceed VAR measures approximately once every 100 trading days, ortwo to three times each year. The VAR model does not measure the degree of theexcess gain or loss, rather it produces a confidence level that gains or losseswill be within predicted ranges. Since the third quarter of 2000, theCorporation has been migrating its trading books to a historical simulationapproach. This approach utilizes historical market conditions over the lastthree years to derive estimates of trading risk and provides for the naturalaggregation of trading risks across different groups. The effects of correlationand diversification are embedded in these calculations. The completion of themigration is expected to take place during the first half of 2002. While thetransition is taking place, the square root of the sum of squares method is usedto aggregate risk. VAR modeling on trading is subject to numerous limitations. In addition,the Corporation recognizes that there are numerous assumptions and estimatesassociated with modeling and actual results could differ from these assumptionsand estimates. The Corporation mitigates these uncertainties through closemonitoring and by examining and updating assumptions on an ongoing basis. Thecontinual trading risk management process considers the impact of unanticipatedrisk exposure and updates assumptions to reduce loss exposure. As the following graph shows, in 2001, actual market risk-related revenueexceeded VAR measures three days out of 250 total trading days. During the sameperiod, actual market risk-related losses exceeded VAR measures one day out of250 total trading days. This occurred immediately following the events ofSeptember 11, 2001 due to extreme market conditions.Trading Risk and ReturnDaily VAR and Market Risk-Related Revenue[GRAPHIC] Line graph representation of Daily Market Risk-Related Revenue and VAR forthe twelve months ended December 31, 2001. During the period, the daily marketrisk-related revenue ranged from $(58) million to $66 million. During the sameperiod, VAR ranged from $36 million to $70 million.The following table summarizes the VAR in the Corporation's trading portfoliosfor the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000:Table 21 Trading Activities Market Risk/(1)/ The average VAR for the total portfolio is less than the sum of the VARsof the individual portfolios due to risk offsets arising from thediversification of the portfolio./(2)/ The high and low for the total portfolio may not equal the sum of theindividual components as the highs or lows of the individual portfolios may haveoccurred on different trading days./(3)/ The real estate/mortgage business is included in the fixed income categoryin the Trading-Related Revenue table in Note Four of the consolidated financialstatements. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 65 Total trading portfolio VAR increased during 2001 relative to 2000. Thisincrease was due to increased activity in the interest rate business,particularly in the United States, and the addition of mortgage banking assetsto the VAR calculation for the real estate/mortgage portfolio in the firstquarter of 2001. Since the third quarter of 2000, the migration of trading books to ahistorical simulation approach has resulted in a lower VAR in equities andforeign exchange and a higher VAR in commodities. VAR was not restated forprevious quarters. The following table summarizes the quarterly VAR in the Corporation'strading portfolios for 2001:/(1)/ The average VAR for the total portfolio is less than the sum of the VARsof the individual portfolios due to risk offsets arising from thediversification of the portfolio./(2)/ The high and low for the total portfolio may not equal the sum of theindividual components as the highs or lows of the individual portfolios may haveoccurred on different trading days./(3)/ The real estate/mortgage business is included in the fixed incomecategory in the Trading-Related Revenue table in Note Four of the consolidatedfinancial statements.Stress TestingIn order to determine the sensitivity of the Corporation's capital to the impactof historically large market moves with low probability, stress scenarios arerun against the trading portfolios. This stress testing should verify that, evenunder extreme market moves, the Corporation will preserve its capital. Thescenarios for each product are large standard deviation movements in therelevant markets that are based on significant historical or hypotheticalevents. These results are calculated daily and reported as part of the regularreporting process. In addition, specific stress scenarios are run regularly which representextreme hypothetical, but plausible, events that would be of concern given theCorporation's current portfolio. The results of these specific scenarios arepresented to the Corporation's Trading Risk Committee as part of its regularmeetings. Examples of these specific stress scenarios include calculating theeffects on the overall portfolio of an extreme Federal Reserve Board tighteningor easing of interest rates, a severe credit deterioration in the U.S., and arecession in Japan and the corresponding ripple effects globally.Non-Exchange Traded Commodity Contracts at Fair ValueThe use of non-exchange traded or over the counter commodity contracts providesthe Corporation with the ability to adapt to the varied requirements of a widecustomer base while efficiently mitigating its market risk. Non-exchange tradedcommodity contracts are stated at fair value, which is generally based on dealerprice estimates. These contracts are primarily oil and gas commoditiescontracts. The table below summarizes the changes in the fair value for non-exchangetraded commodity contracts for 2001: B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 66 The Corporation controls and manages its commodity risk through the use of VARlimits. See Tables Twenty-One and Twenty-Two for further details. The followingtable indicates the maturities of non-exchange traded commodity contracts atDecember 31, 2001:Asset and Liability Management ActivitiesNon-Trading PortfolioThe Corporation's Asset and Liability Management (ALM) process, managed throughthe Asset and Liability Committee of the Finance Committee, is used to manageinterest rate risk through structuring balance sheet portfolios and identifyingand linking derivative positions to specific hedged assets and liabilities.Interest rate risk represents the only material market risk exposure to theCorporation's non-trading financial instruments. To effectively measure and manage interest rate risk, the Corporation usessophisticated computer simulations that determine the impact on net interestincome of numerous interest rate scenarios, balance sheet trends and strategies.These simulations cover the following financial instruments: short-termfinancial instruments, securities, loans, deposits, borrowings and ALMderivative instruments. These simulations incorporate assumptions about balancesheet dynamics, such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in fundingmix and asset and liability repricing and maturity characteristics. Simulationsare run under various interest rate scenarios to determine the impact on netincome and capital. From these scenarios, interest rate risk is quantified andappropriate strategies are developed and implemented. The overall interest raterisk position and strategies are reviewed on an ongoing basis by seniormanagement. Additionally, duration and market value sensitivity measures areselectively utilized where they provide added value to the overall interest raterisk management process. The Corporation specifically reviews the impact on net interest income ofparallel and non-parallel shifts in the yield curve over different timehorizons. At December 31, 2001, the Federal Funds rate was 1.75 percent and ouroutlook did not anticipate additional easing from the Fed, with continueduncertainty surrounding the timing and extent of future tightenings. As aresult, the interest rate risk position of the Corporation was relativelyneutral to parallel shifts upward in the yield curve as the impact on netinterest income of a 100 basis point parallel shift, up over either two months(rapid) or twelve months (gradual) would be slightly favorable, but less thanone percent. While further material declines in interest rates are unlikely, theimpact on net interest income of a 100 basis point parallel shift down would benegative three percent. Table Twenty-Three summarizes the expected maturities, unrealized gainsand losses and weighted average effective yields and rates associated withcertain of the Corporation's significant non-trading financial instruments. Cashand cash equivalents, time deposits placed and other short-term investments,federal funds sold and purchased, resale and repurchase agreements, commercialpaper, other short-term borrowings and foreign deposits, which are similar innature to other short-term borrowings, are excluded from Table Twenty-Three astheir respective carrying values approximate fair values. These financialinstruments generally expose the Corporation to insignificant market risk asthey have either no stated maturities or an average maturity of less than 30days and interest rates that approximate market rates. However, these financialinstruments could expose the Corporation to interest rate risk by requiring moreor less reliance on alternative funding sources, such as long-term debt. Loansheld for sale are also excluded as their carrying values approximate their fairvalues, generally exposing the Corporation to insignificant market risk. Forfurther information on the fair value of financial instruments, see NoteEighteen of the consolidated financial statements. The fair values and expectedmaturities for ALM derivative instruments used for balance sheet managementpurposes are presented in Table Twenty-Four. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 67 Table 23 Non-Trading Financial InstrumentsDecember 31, 2001 Expected Maturity/(1)/ Fixed and variable rate classifications are based on contractual rates and are not modified for the impact of asset and liability management contracts./(2)/ Expected maturities reflect the impact of prepayment assumptions./(3)/ With the exception of available-for-sale securities, the book value does not include unrealized gains (losses)./(4)/ Excludes leases./(5)/ When measuring and managing market risk associated with domestic deposits, such as savings and demand deposits, the Corporation considers that there is value in its long-term relationships with depositors. The unrealized loss on deposits in this table does not consider the value of these long-term relationships; therefore, only certificates of deposits reflect an unrealized gain or loss./(6)/ Excludes foreign time deposits./(7)/ Expected maturities of long-term debt and trust preferred securities reflect the Corporation's ability to redeem such debt prior to contractual maturities./(8)/ Excludes obligations under capital leases. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 68 Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange ContractsRisk management interest rate contracts and foreign exchange contracts areutilized in the Corporation's ALM process. The Corporation maintains an overallinterest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of interestrate contracts to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings thatare caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation's goal is to manageinterest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not adverselyaffect net interest income. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedgedfixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value.Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedgedfixed-rate assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset thisunrealized appreciation or depreciation. Interest income on hedgedvariable-rate assets, primarily variable rate commercial loans, and interestexpense on hedged variable rate liabilities, primarily short-term time deposits,increases or decreases as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Gains andlosses on the derivative instruments that are linked to these hedged assets andliabilities are expected to substantially offset this variability in earnings.See Note Five of the consolidated financial statements for additionalinformation on the Corporation's hedging activities. Interest rate contracts, which are generally non-leveraged genericinterest rate and basis swaps, options, futures and forwards, allow theCorporation to effectively manage its interest rate risk position. In addition,the Corporation uses foreign currency contracts to manage the foreign exchangerisk associated with foreign-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as theCorporation's equity investments in foreign subsidiaries. Table Twenty-Fourreflects the notional amounts, fair value, weighted average receive and payrates, expected maturity and estimated duration of the Corporation's ALMderivatives at December 31, 2001 and 2000. Fair values are based on the lastrepricing and will change in the future primarily based on movements in one-,three- and six-month LIBOR rates. Management believes the fair value of the ALMinterest rate and foreign exchange portfolios should be viewed in the contextof the overall balance sheet, and the value of any single component of thebalance sheet positions should not be viewed in isolation. Consistent with the Corporation's strategy of managing interest ratesensitivity, the net receive fixed interest rate swap position declined by $5.8billion to $43.0 billion at December 31, 2001. This reduction primarily occurredin the last half of 2001. Option products in the Corporation's ALM process mayinclude from time to time option collars or spread strategies, which involve thebuying and selling of options on the same underlying security or interest rateindex. These strategies may involve caps, floors and options on index futurescontracts. The amount of unamortized net realized deferred gains associated withclosed ALM swaps was $966 million and $25 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000,respectively. The amount of unamortized net realized deferred gains associatedwith closed ALM options was $114 million and $95 million at December 31, 2001and 2000, respectively. The amount of unamortized net realized deferred lossesassociated with closed ALM futures and forward contracts was $9 million and $15million at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. There were no unamortizednet realized deferred gains or losses associated with closed foreign exchangecontracts at December 31, 2001 and 2000. Of these unamortized net realizeddeferred gains, $1.0 billion was included in accumulated other comprehensiveincome at December 31, 2001. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 69 Table 24 Asset and Liability Management Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Contracts (continued)December 31, 2000/(1)/ Represents the unamortized net realized deferred gains associated with closed contracts. As a result, no notional amount is reflected for expected maturity. The Corporation adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," (SFAS 133) on January 1, 2001. SFAS 133 requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. The Corporation has not significantly altered its overall interest rate risk management objective and strategy as a result of adopting SFAS 133. For further information on SFAS 133, see Note One of the consolidated financial statements. In conducting its mortgage production activities, the Corporation is exposed to interest rate risk for the periods between the loan commitment date and the date the loan is delivered to the secondary market. To manage this risk, the Corporation enters into various financial instruments including forward delivery contracts, Euro dollar futures and option contracts. The notional amount of such contracts was $27.8 billion at December 31, 2001 with associated net unrealized gains of $69 million. At December 31, 2000, the notional amount of such contracts was $9.7 billion with associated net unrealized losses of $53 million. These contracts have an average expected maturity of less than 90 days. The Corporation manages risk associated with the impact of changes in prepayment rates on certain mortgage banking assets using various financial instruments including purchased options and swaps. The notional amounts of such contracts at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were $65.1 billion and $42.1 billion, respectively. The related unrealized gain was $301 million at December 31, 2001 and the unrealized gain was $424 million at December 31, 2000. The 2001 amounts are included in the Derivative Assets table in Note Five of the consolidated financial statements.Liquidity Risk ManagementThe Corporation manages liquidity risk by assessing all on- and off-balancesheet funding demands and alternatives. Funding requirements are impacted byloan repayments and originations, liability settlements and issuances,off-balance sheet funding commitments (including commercial and consumer loans)and the level of asset securitizations utilized by the Corporation. TheCorporation also complies with various regulatory guidelines regarding requiredliquidity levels and periodically monitors its liquidity position in light ofthe changing economic environment and customer activity. Based on these periodicassessments, the Corporation will alter, as deemed appropriate, its assets andliabilities and off-balance sheet positions. The Corporation currently maintainsvarious shelf registrations with the Securities and Exchange Commission, wherebyadditional short-term and long-term debt may be issued. See Note Ten of theconsolidated financial statements for additional information. The Corporation employs various liquidity modeling techniques and metrics.Throughout 2001, the Corporation's liquidity position has improved significantlyto its best position in many years. A commonly used measure of banking liquidityis the loan to deposit ratio. The Corporation's loan to core deposit ratio was99 percent and 128 percent at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The loanto core deposit ratio at December 31, 2001 was the lowest ratio since theCorporation's merger with First Republic Bank Corporation in 1988. In addition,average short-term borrowings decreased $39.0 billion, or 30 percent, in 2001. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 70 Table 25 Selected Quarterly Financial Data/(1)/ Cash basis calculations exclude goodwill and other intangible amortizationexpense./(2)/ Operating basis excludes provision for credit losses of $395 million andnoninterest expense of $1,305 million related to the exit of certain consumerfinance businesses in the third quarter of 2001 and restructuring charges of$550 million in the third quarter of 2000. B A N K O F A M E R I C A 2 0 0 1 A N N U A L R E P O R T 71
