>Table 51&#32;presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and are not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than &nbsp;the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see Note 4 &#8211; Outstanding Loans and Leases&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Industry ConcentrationsTable 52&#32;presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total committed commercial credit exposure increased&#32;$56.8 billion, or seven percent, to $823.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. The increase&#32;in commercial committed exposure was concentrated in diversified financials, real estate, retailing and capital goods, partially offset by lower exposure in food, beverage and tobacco.Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposures and capital &nbsp;usage that are allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well as to provide ongoing monitoring. Management's Credit Risk Committee (CRC) oversees industry limit governance. Diversified financials, our largest industry concentration, experienced an increase&#32;in committed exposure of $21.5 billion, or 22 percent, in 2013, driven by higher funded loans and certain asset-backed lending products.Real estate, our second largest industry concentration, experienced an increase&#32;in committed exposure of $10.8 billion, or 16 percent, in 2013&#32;primarily due to new originations and renewals outpacing paydowns and sales. Real estate construction and land development exposure represented 14 percent of the total real estate industry committed exposure at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and 2012. For more information on commercial real estate and related portfolios, see Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management &#8211; Commercial Real Estate&#32;on page 94.Retailing, our third largest industry concentration, experienced an increase&#32;in committed exposure of $6.9 billion, or 14 percent, in 2013&#32;driven by loans to auto dealers and wholesalers, apparel retail, and specialty stores. Committed exposure to the food, beverage and tobacco industry decreased&#32;$6.8 billion, or 18 percent, in 2013, primarily related to commitment reductions and paydowns. Capital goods committed exposure increased&#32;$3.7 billion, or seven percent, in 2013&#32;driven by heavy electrical equipment and machinery exposure. Healthcare equipment and services committed exposure increased&#32;$3.6 billion, or eight percent, in 2013&#32;driven by health care distributors, doctors, dentists and practitioners, and health care equipment. Energy committed exposure increased&#32;$2.7 billion, or seven percent, in 2013&#32;reflecting higher exposure to the integrated oil and gas, and exploration and production sectors.&nbsp;Our committed state and municipal exposure of $35.9 billion at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;consisted of $29.4 billion of commercial utilized exposure (including $18.6 billion of funded loans, $7.3 billion of SBLCs and $1.7 billion of derivative assets) and $6.5 billion of unfunded commercial exposure (primarily unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit) and is reported in the government and public education industry in Table 52. While the slow pace of economic recovery continues to pressure budgets, most state and local governments have implemented offsetting fiscal adjustments and continue to honor debt obligations as agreed. While historical default rates have been low, as part of our overall and ongoing risk management processes, we continually monitor these exposures through a rigorous review process. Additionally, internal communications are regularly circulated such that exposure levels are maintained in compliance with established concentration guidelines.Monoline ExposureMonoline exposure is reported in the insurance industry and managed under insurance portfolio industry limits. We have indirect exposure to monolines primarily in the form of guarantees supporting our loans, investment portfolios, securitizations and credit-enhanced securities as part of our public finance business, and other selected products. Such indirect exposure exists when we purchase credit protection from monolines to hedge all or a portion of the credit risk on certain credit exposures including loans and CDOs. We underwrite our public finance exposure by evaluating the underlying securities.We also have indirect exposure to monolines in the form of guarantees supporting our mortgage and other loan sales. Indirect exposure may exist when credit protection was purchased from monolines to hedge all or a portion of the credit risk on certain mortgage and other loan exposures. A loss may occur when we are required to repurchase a loan due to a breach of the representations and warranties, and the market value of the loan has declined, or we are required to indemnify or provide recourse for a guarantor's loss. For more information regarding our exposure to representations and warranties, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations &#8211; Representations and Warranties&#32;on page 52&#32;and Note 7 &#8211; Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Table 53&#32;presents the notional amount of our monoline derivative credit exposure, mark-to-market adjustment and the counterparty credit valuation adjustment. The notional amount of monoline exposure decreased&#32;$2.9 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;due to terminations, paydowns and maturities of monoline contracts.Risk MitigationWe purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. At December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and 2012, net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was $8.1 billion&#32;and $14.7 billion. The mark-to-market effects resulted in net losses of $356 million in 2013&#32;compared to $1.0 billion in 2012. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses on the exposures. Table 54&#32;presents the average VaR statistics at a 99 percent confidence interval for the hedged credit exposure, the purchased credit protection and the remaining position. See Trading Risk Management&#32;on page 109&#32;for a &nbsp;description of our VaR calculation for the market-based trading portfolio.Tables 55&#32;and 56&#32;present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and 2012.In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker/dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades.Table 57&#32;presents the total contract/notional amount of credit derivatives outstanding and includes both purchased and written credit derivatives. The credit risk amounts are measured as net asset exposure by counterparty, taking into consideration all contracts with the counterparty. For more information on our written credit derivatives, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.&nbsp;The credit risk amounts discussed above and presented in Table 57&#32;take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements, while amounts disclosed in Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;are shown on a gross basis. Credit risk reflects the potential benefit from offsetting exposure to non-credit derivative products with the same counterparties that may be netted upon the occurrence of certain events, thereby reducing our overall exposure.n/a = not applicableCounterparty Credit Risk Valuation AdjustmentsWe record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our credit default protection purchased, in order to properly reflect the credit risk of the counterparty. We calculate CVA based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors including changes in market spreads and non-credit related market factors that affect the value of a derivative. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. For additional information, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Non-U.S. PortfolioOur non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S.&#160;risk and exposures. Management oversight of country risk, including cross-border risk, is provided by the Country Credit Risk Committee, a subcommittee of the CRC. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through country risk governance.&nbsp;Table 59&#32;presents our total non-U.S. exposure broken out by region at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and 2012. Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S. The risk assignments by country can be adjusted for external guarantees and certain collateral types. Exposures that are subject to external guarantees are reported under the country of the guarantor. Exposures with tangible collateral are reflected in the country where the collateral is held. For securities received, other than cross-border resale agreements, outstandings are assigned to the domicile of the issuer of the securities.Our total non-U.S. exposure was $253.8 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013, a decrease&#32;of $27.8 billion&#32;from December&#160;31, 2012. The decrease&#32;in non-U.S. exposure was driven by a reduction in Asia Pacific and Europe, partially offset by growth in other regions. Our non-U.S. exposure remained concentrated in Europe which accounted for $133.3 billion, or 53 percent&#32;of total non-U.S. exposure. The European exposure was mostly in Western Europe and was distributed across a variety of industries. Select European countries are further presented in Table 61. Asia Pacific was our second largest non-U.S. exposure at $69.3 billion, or 27 percent&#32;of total non-U.S. exposure. Latin America accounted for $21.7 billion, or nine percent&#32;of total non-U.S.&#160;exposure. Middle East and Africa accounted for $8.7 billion, or three percent&#32;of total non-U.S. exposure. Other non-U.S. exposure accounted for $20.9 billion&#32;or eight percent&#32;of total non-U.S. exposure. For information on country specific exposures, see Tables 60&#32;and 61.Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and due from placements, which have not been reduced by collateral, hedges or credit default protection. Funded loans and loan equivalents are reported net of charge-offs but prior to any allowance for loan and lease losses. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents.Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with credit default swaps (CDS) and secured financing transactions. Derivative exposures are presented net of collateral, which is predominantly cash, pledged under legally enforceable master netting agreements. Secured financing transaction exposures are presented net of eligible cash or securities pledged as collateral.Securities and other investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures are netted against short exposures with &nbsp;the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero (i.e., negative issuer exposures are reported as zero). Other investments include our GPI portfolio and strategic investments.Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold. We hedge certain of our country exposures with credit default protection primarily in the form of single-name, as well as indexed and tranched CDS. The exposures associated with these hedges represent the amount that would be realized upon the isolated default of an individual issuer in the relevant country assuming a zero recovery rate for that individual issuer, and are calculated based on the CDS notional amount less any fair value receivable or payable. Changes in the assumption of an isolated default can produce different results in a particular tranche.Table 60&#32;presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures. These exposures accounted for 88 percent&#32;and 89 percent&#32;of our total non-U.S. exposure at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and 2012. Net country exposure for these 20 countries decreased&#32;$30.5 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;driven by a decrease in funded loans and loan equivalents in Japan and France resulting from a decrease in central bank deposits and a reduction in unfunded loan commitments in Singapore.Certain European countries, including Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have experienced varying degrees of financial stress in recent years. Risks from the ongoing financial instability in these countries could continue to disrupt the financial markets which could have a detrimental impact on global economic conditions and sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these &nbsp;countries. Market volatility is expected to continue as policymakers address the fundamental challenges of competitiveness, growth and fiscal solvency. We expect to continue to support client activities in the region and our exposures may vary over time as we monitor the situation and manage our risk profile.Table 61&#32;presents our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures in these countries at December&#160;31, 2013. Our total sovereign and non-sovereign exposure to these countries was $17.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;compared to $14.5 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2012. The total exposure to these countries, net of all hedges, was $10.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;compared to $9.5 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2012. At December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and &nbsp;2012, hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold, was $6.8 billion&#32;and $5.1 billion. Net country exposure increased&#32;$901 million&#32;in 2013&#32;driven by increased funded loan and loan equivalents with financial institutions in Spain and Italy, partially offset by a decrease in total sovereign exposures.The majority of our CDS contracts on reference assets in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain are with highly-rated financial institutions primarily outside of the Eurozone and we work to limit or eliminate correlated CDS. Due to our engagement in market-making activities, our CDS portfolio contains contracts with various maturities to a diverse set of counterparties. We work to &nbsp;limit mismatches in maturities between our exposures and the CDS we use to hedge them. However, there may be instances where the protection purchased has a different maturity than the exposure for which the protection was purchased, in which case, those exposures and hedges are subject to more active monitoring and management.Table 62&#32;presents the notional amount and fair value of single-name CDS purchased and sold on reference assets in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Table 62&#32;includes only single-name CDS netted at the counterparty level, whereas, Table 61&#32;includes single-name, indexed and tranched CDS exposures netted by the reference asset that they are intended to hedge; therefore, CDS purchased and sold information is not comparable between tables.Losses could result even if there is credit default protection purchased because the purchased credit protection contracts may only pay out under certain scenarios and thus not all losses may be covered by the credit protection contracts. The effectiveness of our CDS protection as a hedge of these risks is influenced by a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS. Generally, only the occurrence of a credit event as defined by the CDS terms (which may include, among other events, the failure to pay by, or restructuring of, the reference entity) results in a payment under the purchased credit protection contracts. The determination as to whether a credit event has occurred is made by the relevant International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Determination Committee (comprised of various ISDA member firms) based on the terms of the CDS and facts and &nbsp;circumstances for the event. Accordingly, uncertainties exist as to whether any particular strategy or policy action for addressing the European financial instability would constitute a credit event under the CDS. A voluntary restructuring may not trigger a credit event under CDS terms and consequently may not trigger a payment under the CDS contract.In addition to our direct sovereign and non-sovereign exposures, a significant deterioration of the European financial instability could result in material reductions in the value of sovereign debt and other asset classes posted as collateral, disruptions in capital markets, widening of credit spreads of U.S. and non-U.S. financial institutions, loss of investor confidence in the financial services industry, a slowdown in global economic activity and other adverse developments. For more information on the financial instability in Europe, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.Table 63&#32;presents countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December&#160;31, 2013, the United Kingdom was the only country where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At December&#160;31, 2013, France had total cross-border exposure of $17.8 billion&#32;representing 0.85&#32;percent of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded 0.75&#32;percent of our total assets at December&#160;31, 2013.Cross-border exposures are calculated using FFIEC guidelines and not our internal risk management view; therefore, exposures are not comparable between tables. Exposure includes cross-border claims by our non-U.S.&#160;offices including loans, acceptances, time deposits placed, trading account assets, securities, derivative assets, other interest-earning investments and other monetary assets. Amounts also include unfunded commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees, and the notional amount of cash lent under secured financing transactions. Sector definitions are consistent with FFIEC reporting requirements for preparing the Country Exposure Report.Provision for Credit LossesThe provision for credit losses decreased&#32;$4.6 billion&#32;to $3.6 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to 2012. The provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion&#32;lower than net charge-offs for 2013, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses due to continued improvement in the home loans and credit card portfolios. This compared to a reduction of $6.7 billion&#32;in the allowance for credit losses for 2012. If the economy and our asset quality continue to improve, we anticipate additional reductions in the allowance for credit losses in future periods, although at a significantly lower level than in 2013.The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio decreased&#32;$6.0 billion&#32;to $2.0 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to 2012, due to continued improvement in the home loans portfolio primarily as a result of improved delinquencies, increased home prices, and continued loan balance run-off, as well as improvement in the credit card portfolios primarily driven by lower delinquencies. The provision for credit losses related to the PCI loan portfolio was a benefit&#32;of $707 million&#32;in 2013&#32;primarily due to improvement in our home price outlook compared to a benefit&#32;of $103 million&#32;in 2012.The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfunded lending commitments, increased&#32;$1.3 billion&#32;to $1.5 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to 2012&#32;due to stabilization of credit quality, an increase in reserves due to loan growth and a higher volume of loan resolutions in the prior year within the core commercial portfolio.Allowance for Credit LossesAllowance for Loan and Lease LossesThe allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes LHFS and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component.The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan's observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated consumer credit card, small business credit card and unsecured consumer TDR portfolios is based on the present value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans.The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and &nbsp;leases that have incurred losses which are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of December&#160;31, 2013, the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance for all major consumer portfolios.The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the LGD&#160;based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor's liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor's credit risk. As of December&#160;31, 2013, changes in portfolio size and composition resulted in an increase in the allowance for all major commercial portfolios.Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. We also consider factors that are applicable to unique portfolio segments. For example, we consider the risk of uncertainty in our loss forecasting models related to junior-lien home equity loans that are current, but have first-lien loans that we do not service that are 30 days or more past due. In addition, we consider the increased risk of default associated with our interest-only loans that have yet to enter the amortization period. Given the heightened risk of loss with these loans, additional reserves are recorded to the allowance for loan and lease losses. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data.During 2013, the factors that impacted the allowance for loan and lease losses included significant overall improvements in the credit quality of the portfolios driven by improvements in the U.S. economy and housing and labor markets, continuing proactive credit risk management initiatives and the impact of recent higher credit quality originations. Additionally, the resolution of uncertainties through current recognition of net charge-offs has impacted the amount of reserve needed in certain portfolios. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. economy and housing and labor markets are modest growth in consumer spending, improvements in unemployment levels, a decrease in the absolute level and our share of national consumer bankruptcy filings, and a rise in both residential building activity and overall home prices. In addition to these improvements, paydowns, charge-offs, sales, returns to performing status and upgrades out of criticized continued to outpace new nonaccrual consumer loans and reservable criticized commercial loans, but such loans remained elevated relative to levels experienced prior to the financial crisis. We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios.Additions to, or reductions of, the allowance for loan and lease losses generally are recorded through charges or credits to the provision for credit losses. Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan and lease losses. Recoveries of previously charged off amounts are credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses.The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in Table 65, was $13.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013, a decrease&#32;of $7.7 billion&#32;from December&#160;31, 2012. The decrease&#32;was primarily driven by the home equity and residential mortgage portfolios due to improved delinquencies and home prices as evidenced by improving LTV statistics as presented in Tables 30&#32;and 32&#32;as well as continued loan balance run-off. In addition, the home equity and residential mortgage allowance declined due to write-offs in our PCI loan portfolio. These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses.&nbsp;The decrease in the allowance related to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in CBB&#32;was primarily due to improvement in delinquencies and bankruptcies. For example, in the U.S. credit card portfolio, accruing loans 30 days or more past due decreased&#32;to $2.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;from $2.7 billion&#32;(to 2.25 percent&#32;from 2.90 percent&#32;of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at December&#160;31, 2012, and accruing loans 90 days or more past due declined&#32;to $1.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;from $1.4 billion&#32;(to 1.14 percent&#32;from 1.52 percent&#32;of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at December 31, 2012. See Tables 27, 28, 37&#32;and 39&#32;for additional details on key credit statistics for the credit card and other unsecured consumer lending portfolios.The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in Table 65, was $4.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013, a $899 million&#32;increase&#32;from December&#160;31, 2012, as continued improvement in credit quality was more than offset by loan growth across the commercial portfolio. The commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure decreased&#32;to $12.9 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;from $15.9 billion&#32;(to 3.02 percent&#32;from 4.10 percent&#32;of total commercial utilized reservable exposure) at December&#160;31, 2012. Similarly, nonperforming commercial loans declined&#32;to $1.3 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;from $3.2 billion&#32;(to 0.34 percent&#32;from 0.93 percent&#32;of outstanding commercial loans) at December&#160;31, 2012. See Tables 43, 44&#32;and 46&#32;for additional details on key commercial credit statistics.The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 1.90 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;compared to 2.69 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2012. The decrease&#32;in the ratio was primarily due to improved credit quality driven by improved economic conditions and write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio for home equity and residential mortgage which led to the reduction in the allowance for credit losses discussed above. The December 31, 2013 and 2012&#32;ratios above include the PCI loan portfolio. Excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 1.67 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;compared to 2.14 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2012.Table 64&#32;presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2013&#32;and 2012.For reporting purposes, we allocate the allowance for credit losses across products. However, the allowance is generally available to absorb any credit losses without restriction. Table 65&#32;presents our allocation by product type.Reserve for Unfunded Lending CommitmentsIn addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers' acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of the Corporation's historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded EAD. The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models.The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $484 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013, a decrease&#32;of $29 million&#32;from December&#160;31, 2012. The decrease&#32;was driven by improved credit quality in the unfunded portfolio.Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets&#32;segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on the results of the Corporation. For additional information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading Activities&#32;on page&#160;113.Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are nontrading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our nontrading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, mortgage, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.Global Markets Risk Management is an independent function within the Corporation that supports the Global Banking and Markets Risk Executive. The Global Markets Risk Committee (GMRC), chaired by the Global Markets Risk Executive, has been designated by ALMRC as the primary risk governance authority for Global Markets. The GMRC's focus is to take a forward-looking view of the primary credit, market and operational risks impacting Global &nbsp;Markets&#32;and prioritize those that need a proactive risk mitigation strategy.Global Markets Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which the Corporation is exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets&#32;are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.Quantitative risk models, such as VaR, are an essential component in evaluating the market risks within a portfolio. The Enterprise Model Risk Committee (EMRC) reports to the ALMRC and is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance. The EMRC defines model risk standards, consistent with the Corporation's Risk Framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. Models must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the model development process and a sufficient demonstration of developmental evidence incorporating a comparison of alternative theories and approaches. The EMRC ensures that model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation. In addition, the relevant stakeholders must agree on any required limitations or restrictions to the models and maintain a stringent monitoring process to ensure continued compliance.For more information on the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Interest Rate RiskInterest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.Foreign Exchange RiskForeign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S.&#160;interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.Mortgage RiskMortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. First, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including CDOs using mortgages as underlying collateral. Second, we originate a variety of MBS which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization. Third, we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. Fourth, we create MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. For more information on MSRs, see Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;and Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include contracts and derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards. For additional information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management&#32;on page 116.Equity Market RiskEquity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions.Commodity RiskCommodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions.Issuer Credit RiskIssuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments.Market Liquidity RiskMarket liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.&nbsp;Trading Risk ManagementTo evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments.VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence interval and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios that uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level. This means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience.VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a bi-weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A relatively minor portion of risks related to our trading positions are not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP.Global Markets Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate governance committees.Market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in Table 66&#32;differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations (regulatory VaR). The VaR disclosed in Table 66&#32;excludes both counterparty CVA, which are adjustments to the mark-to-market value of our derivative exposures to reflect the impact of the credit quality of counterparties on our derivatives assets, and the corresponding hedges. Regulatory standards require that regulatory VaR only &nbsp;exclude counterparty CVA but include the corresponding hedges. The holding period for regulatory VaR is 10 days while for the market risk VaR presented below, it is one day. Both regulatory and market risk VaR values utilize the same process and methodology. For more information on certain components in regulatory VaR, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital Changes&#32;on page 68.The market risk across all business segments to which the Corporation is exposed is included in the total market-based trading portfolio VaR results. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets&#32;segment.Table 66&#32;presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for 2013&#32;and 2012.The decrease&#32;in average VaR during 2013&#32;was driven by lower levels of exposures in the interest rate and real estate/mortgage markets. &nbsp;The graph below presents the daily total market-based trading portfolio VaR for 2013, corresponding to the data presented in Table 66.To enhance the visibility of the market risks to which we are exposed, additional VaR statistics produced within the Corporation's single VaR model are provided in Table 67. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio as the historical market &nbsp;data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 67&#32;presents average trading VaR statistics for 99 percent and 95 percent confidence intervals for 2013&#32;and 2012.Limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are monitored on a daily basis. The trading limits are independently set by market risk management and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. The limits are set at both a granular level to ensure extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. Trading limits are approved at least annually. The ALMRC has given authority to the GMRC to approve changes to trading limits throughout the year. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation's Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are monitored on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the Board. The market risk based risk appetite limits were not exceeded during 2013.In periods of market stress, the GMRC members communicate daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk. Where economically feasible, positions are sold or macroeconomic hedges are executed to reduce the exposures.BacktestingThe accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily regulatory VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against the realized daily profit and loss. Backtesting excesses occur when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss and to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. As our primary VaR statistic used for backtesting is based on a 99 percent confidence interval and a one-day holding period, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days, or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is &nbsp;materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation.We conduct daily backtesting on our portfolios and report the results to senior market risk management. Senior management, including the GMRC, regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests. The government agencies that regulate our operations also regularly review these results.The revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenues from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intraday trading revenues. In addition, counterparty CVA is not included in the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation and is therefore not included in the revenue used for backtesting.There were no days with backtesting excesses for our total market-based trading portfolio VaR, utilizing a holding period, during 2013.Total Trading RevenueTotal trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading-related revenues can be volatile and are largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenues are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenues by business are monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed. When it is deemed material, an explanation of these revenues is provided to the GMRC.The histogram below is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for 2013&#32;and 2012. During 2013, positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 96 percent, or 241 of the 251 trading days, of which 74 percent (186 days) were daily trading gains of over $25 million &nbsp;and the largest loss was $54 million. This compares to 2012&#32;where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent, or 243 of the 249 trading days, of which 80 percent (199 days) were daily trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss was $50 million.Trading Portfolio Stress TestingBecause the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and are dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements.A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a 10-business day window or longer representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide simulations of the estimated portfolio impact from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing &nbsp;positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or adhoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events. For example, a stress test was conducted to estimate the impact of a significant increase in global interest rates and the corresponding impact across other asset classes. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management.Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. A process is in place to promote consistency between the scenarios used for the trading portfolio and those used for enterprise-wide stress testing. The scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For additional information, see Managing Risk &#8211; Enterprise-wide Stress Testing&#32;on page 63.Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading ActivitiesThe following discussion presents net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities.Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our nontrading balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in an effort to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing and maturity characteristics. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.Table 68&#32;presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2013 and 2012.&nbsp;Table 69&#32;shows the pre-tax dollar impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2013 and 2012, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically, we evaluate the scenarios presented to ensure that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment. For further discussion of net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities, see page 34.During 2013, the 10-year Treasury rate increased more than 120 bps. We continue to be asset sensitive to both a parallel move in interest rates and to a lesser degree a long-end led steepening of the yield curve. Additionally, rising interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital levels.The sensitivity analysis in Table 69&#32;assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.SecuritiesThe securities portfolio is an integral part of our interest rate risk management, which includes our ALM positioning, and is primarily comprised of debt securities including MBS and to a lesser extent U.S.&#160;Treasury, corporate, municipal and other debt securities. As part of the ALM positioning, we use derivatives to hedge interest rate and duration risk. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, our securities portfolio used for ALM positioning had a carrying value of $323.9 billion&#32;and $360.3 billion.During 2013&#32;and 2012, we purchased debt securities of $190.4 billion&#32;and $185.5 billion, sold $117.7 billion&#32;and $72.4 billion, and had maturities and received paydowns of $94.0 billion&#32;and $77.8 billion, respectively. We realized $1.3 billion&#32;and $1.7 billion&#32;in net gains on sales of AFS debt securities.At December 31, 2013 and 2012, accumulated OCI included after-tax net unrealized losses of $3.3 billion&#32;and gains of $4.4 billion&#32;on AFS debt securities and after-tax net unrealized losses of $4 million&#32;and gains of $462 million&#32;on AFS marketable equity securities. For more information on accumulated OCI, see Note 14 &#8211; Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The pre-tax net amounts in accumulated OCI related to AFS debt securities decreased $12.2 billion&#32;during 2013&#32;to a $5.2 billion&#32;net unrealized loss primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates. For more information on our securities portfolio, see Note 3 &#8211; Securities&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We recognized $20 million&#32;of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses in earnings on AFS debt securities in 2013&#32;compared to losses of $53 million&#32;in 2012. The recognition of OTTI losses is based on a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than amortized cost, the financial condition of the issuer of the security including credit ratings and any specific events affecting the operations of the issuer, underlying assets that collateralize the debt security, other industry and macroeconomic conditions, and our intent and ability to hold the security to recovery.Residential Mortgage PortfolioAt December 31, 2013 and 2012, our residential mortgage portfolio was $248.1 billion&#32;and $252.9 billion&#32;excluding $2.0 billion&#32;and $1.0 billion&#32;of consumer residential mortgage loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on consumer fair value option loans, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management &#8211; Consumer Loans Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option&#32;on page 89. The $4.9 billion&#32;decrease&#32;in 2013&#32;was primarily due to paydowns, charge-offs, transfers to foreclosed &nbsp;properties and sales. These were partially offset by new origination volume retained on our balance sheet, loans repurchased as part of the FNMA Settlement, as well as repurchases of delinquent loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA, which is part of our mortgage banking activities.&#32;For more information on the FNMA Settlement, see Note 7 &#8211; Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.During 2013, CRES&#32;and GWIM&#32;originated $44.5 billion of first-lien mortgages that we retained compared to $35.4 billion in 2012. Additionally, during 2013&#32;in connection with the FNMA Settlement, we repurchased $5.3 billion of certain residential mortgage loans as mentioned above. We repurchased, net of loans redelivered, $5.5 billion of loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA, primarily FHA-insured loans, compared to $7.0 billion in 2012. Sales of loans, excluding redelivered FHA loans, during 2013&#32;were $4.0 billion compared to $302 million in 2012. Substantially all of the loans sold in 2013 were nonperforming or PCI. Gains recognized on the sales of residential mortgages in both years were not material. We received paydowns of $53.0&#160;billion in 2013&#32;compared to $54.3 billion in 2012.Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative ContractsInterest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2013&#32;reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.Table 70&#32;presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and economic hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2013 and 2012. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs.We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax, were $2.3 billion&#32;and $2.9 billion&#32;at December 31, 2013 and 2012. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December&#160;31, 2013, the pre-tax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: $784 million, or 22 percent within the next year, 58 percent in years two through five, and 14 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining six percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December&#160;31, 2013.Mortgage Banking Risk ManagementWe originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be HFI or held-for-sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Fluctuations in interest rates drive consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity, which in turn affects total origination and servicing income. Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires complex modeling and ongoing monitoring. Typically, an increase in mortgage interest rates will lead to a decrease in mortgage originations and related fees. IRLCs and the related residential first mortgage LHFS are subject to interest rate risk between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market, as an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to a decrease in the value of these instruments. To hedge interest rate risk and certain market risks of IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS, we utilize forward loan sale commitments and other derivative instruments including purchased options. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the notional amounts of derivatives economically hedging the IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS were $7.9 billion and $31.1 billion.MSRs are nonfinancial assets created when the underlying mortgage loan is sold to investors and we retain the right to service the loan. Typically, an increase in mortgage rates will lead to an increase in the value of the MSRs driven by lower prepayment expectations. We use certain derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and Eurodollar futures, as well as principal-only and interest-only MBS and U.S. Treasuries to hedge interest rate and certain other market &nbsp;risks of MSRs. The fair value and notional amounts of the derivative contracts and the fair value of securities hedging the MSRs were $(2.9) billion, $1.8 trillion and $2.5 billion at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;and $2.3 billion, $1.6 trillion and $2.3 billion at December&#160;31, 2012. In 2013, we recorded in mortgage banking income losses of $1.1 billion related to the change in fair value of the derivative contracts and other securities used to hedge the market risks of the MSRs compared to gains of $2.3 billion for 2012. For more information on MSRs, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;and for more information on mortgage banking income, see CRES&#32;on page 40.Compliance Risk ManagementThe Global Compliance organization is responsible for overseeing compliance risk, which is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation in the event of the failure of the Corporation to comply with requirements of applicable banking and financial services laws, rules and regulations, related self-regulatory organization standards, and codes of conduct. Compliance is at the core of the Corporation's culture and is a key component of risk management discipline.The Global Compliance Framework, an addendum to our Risk Framework, details the high-level requirements of the global compliance program in one comprehensive document. The Global Compliance Framework also clearly defines roles and responsibilities and is supported by policies that articulate detailed requirements for implementation and execution of the global compliance program. As such, the Global Compliance Framework is designed to support responsible, well-informed compliance risk management that incorporates an ongoing, disciplined approach to proactive planning, oversight, escalation and decision making across the Corporation.The Global Compliance Framework also provides an outline for senior management and the Board, and/or appropriate Board-level committees, such as the Audit Committee, to oversee the Corporation's compliance risk management. The Board provides oversight of compliance risks through its Audit Committee.Operational Risk ManagementThe Corporation defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including outsourced business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Its effects may extend beyond financial losses. Operational risk includes legal risk. Successful operational risk management is particularly important to diversified financial services companies because of the nature, volume and complexity of the financial services business. Operational risk is a significant component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital determination. For more information on Basel 3, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital Changes&#32;on page 68.We approach operational risk management from two perspectives to manage operational risk within the structure of the Corporation: (1) at the enterprise level to provide independent, integrated management of operational risk across the organization, and (2) at the business and enterprise control function levels to address operational risk in revenue producing and non-revenue producing units. The Operational Risk Management Program addresses the overarching processes for identifying, measuring, mitigating, controlling, monitoring, testing and reviewing operational risk, and reporting operational risk information to management and the Board. A sound internal governance structure enhances the effectiveness of the Corporation's Operational Risk Management Program and is accomplished at the enterprise level through formal oversight by the Board, the CRO and a variety of management committees and risk oversight groups aligned to the Corporation's overall risk governance framework and practices. Of these, the Compliance and Operational Risk Committee (CORC) oversees the Corporation's policies and processes for sound operational risk management. The CORC also serves as an escalation point for critical operational risk matters within the Corporation. The CORC reports operational risk activities to the Enterprise Risk Committee of the Board.Within the Global Risk Management organization, the Corporate Operational Risk team develops and guides the strategies, policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for assessing and managing operational risks across the organization and reports results to businesses, enterprise control functions, senior management, governance committees and the Board.Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. An annual Audit Plan ensures that coverage activities address the significant aspects of the Corporation's risk profile. Risk assessments incorporating operational risk are completed within the audit planning process.The business and enterprise control functions are responsible for managing all the risks within their units, including operational risks. In addition to enterprise risk management tools such as loss reporting, scenario analysis and RCSAs, operational risk executives, working in conjunction with senior business executives, have developed key tools to help identify, measure, mitigate and monitor risk in each business and enterprise control function. Examples of these include personnel management practices; data reconciliation processes; fraud management units; cybersecurity controls, processes and systems; transaction processing, monitoring and analysis; business recovery planning; and new product introduction processes. The business and enterprise control functions are also responsible for consistently implementing and monitoring adherence to corporate practices.Business and enterprise control function management uses the enterprise RCSA process to identify and evaluate the status of risk and control issues including mitigation plans, as appropriate. The goals of this process are to assess changing market and business conditions, evaluate key risks impacting each business and enterprise control function and assess the controls in place to mitigate the risks. Key operational risk indicators for these risks have been developed and are used to assist in identifying trends and issues on an enterprise, business and enterprise control function level. Independent review and challenge to the Corporation's overall operational risk management framework is performed by the Corporate Operational Risk Validation Team.Enterprise control functions have risk governance and control responsibilities for their enterprise programs (e.g., Global Technology and Operations Group, CFO Group, Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs, Global Human Resources). They provide insights on day-to-day risk activities throughout the Corporation by overseeing and managing the performance of their functions against Corporation-wide expectations. The enterprise control functions participate in the operational risk management process &nbsp;in two ways. First, these organizations manage risk in their functional department. Second, they provide specialized risk management services (e.g., information management, vendor management) within their area of expertise to the enterprise, businesses and other enterprise control functions they support. These groups also work with business and risk executives to develop and guide appropriate strategies, policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for each business and enterprise control function relative to these programs.Where appropriate, insurance policies are purchased to mitigate the impact of operational losses. These insurance policies are explicitly incorporated in the structural features of operational risk evaluation. As insurance recoveries, especially given recent market events, are subject to legal and financial uncertainty, the inclusion of these insurance policies is subject to reductions in their expected mitigating benefits.Complex Accounting EstimatesOur significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;are essential in understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments.The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.Allowance for Credit LossesThe allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation's loan portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate our allowance at the portfolio segment level and our portfolio segments are Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. Due to the variability in the drivers of the assumptions used in this process, estimates of the portfolio's inherent risks and overall collectability change with changes in the economy, individual industries, countries, and borrowers' ability and willingness to repay their obligations. The degree to which any particular assumption affects the allowance for credit losses depends on the severity of the change and its relationship to the other assumptions.Key judgments used in determining the allowance for credit losses include risk ratings for pools of commercial loans and leases, market and collateral values and discount rates for individually evaluated loans, product type classifications for consumer and commercial loans and leases, loss rates used for consumer and commercial loans and leases, adjustments made to address current events and conditions, considerations regarding domestic and global economic uncertainty, and overall credit conditions.Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Home Loans and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Home Loans portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;would have increased by $127 million. PCI loans within our Home Loans portfolio segment are initially recorded at fair value. Applicable accounting guidance prohibits carry-over or creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting. However, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition result in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to the allowance for loan and lease losses. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one percent decrease in the expected cash flows could result in a $205 million impairment of the portfolio. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial portfolio coupled with a one percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within the portfolio segment and the U.S. small business commercial portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;would have increased by $59 million.Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already risk-rated Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased by $2.2 billion at December&#160;31, 2013.The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;was 1.90 percent&#32;and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 2.18 percent.These sensitivity analyses do not represent management's expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases &nbsp;in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.For a discussion of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's proposed standard on accounting for credit losses, see Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Mortgage Servicing RightsMSRs are nonfinancial assets that are created when a mortgage loan is sold and we retain the right to service the loan. We account for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income (loss) in the Consolidated Statement of Income.We determine the fair value of our consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates key economic assumptions including estimates of prepayment rates and resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs, and the option-adjusted spread levels. These variables can, and generally do, change from quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. These assumptions are subjective in nature and changes in these assumptions could materially affect our operating results. For example, increasing the prepayment rate assumption used in the valuation of our consumer MSRs by 10 percent while keeping all other assumptions unchanged could have resulted in an estimated decrease of $244 million&#32;in both MSRs and mortgage banking income (loss) for 2013. This impact does not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk.We manage potential changes in the fair value of MSRs through a comprehensive risk management program. The intent is to mitigate the effects of changes in the fair value of MSRs through the use of risk management instruments. To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, securities including MBS and U.S. Treasuries, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income (loss). For additional information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management&#32;on page 116.For more information on MSRs, including the sensitivity of weighted-average lives and the fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Fair Value of Financial InstrumentsWe classify the fair values of financial instruments&#32;based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.&#32;Applicable accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. We carry trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, certain MSRs and certain other assets at fair value. Also, we account for certain loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt under the fair value option. For additional information, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;and Note 21 &#8211; Fair Value Option&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is tempered by the knowledge of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. Similarly, broker quotes that are executable are given a higher level of reliance than indicative broker quotes, which are not executable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business.Trading account assets and liabilities are carried at fair value based primarily on actively traded markets where prices are based on either direct market quotes or observed transactions. Liquidity is a significant factor in the determination of the fair values of trading account assets and liabilities. Market price quotes may &nbsp;not be readily available for some positions, or positions within a market sector where trading activity has slowed significantly or ceased. Situations of illiquidity generally are triggered by the market's perception of credit uncertainty regarding a single company or a specific market sector. In these instances, fair value is determined based on limited available market information and other factors, principally from reviewing the issuer's financial statements and changes in credit ratings made by one or more rating agencies.Trading account profits, which represent the net amount earned from our trading positions, can be volatile and are largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Trading account profits are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of individual positions as well as portfolios. At a portfolio and corporate level, we use trading limits, stress testing and tools such as VaR modeling, which estimates a potential daily loss that we do not expect to exceed with a specified confidence level, to measure and manage market risk. For more information on VaR, see Trading Risk Management&#32;on page 109.The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the OTC market are determined using quantitative models that utilize multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility factors to value the position. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity dates where observable market inputs are less readily available, or are unobservable, in which case, quantitative-based extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in determining fair values.&#32;The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities include adjustments for market liquidity, counterparty credit quality and other instrument-specific factors, where appropriate.&#32;In addition, the Corporation incorporates within its fair value measurements of OTC derivatives a valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net position. Positions are netted by counterparty, and fair value for net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for&#32;our own credit risk. An estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of fair value, primarily based on market data.&#32;We do not incorporate a funding valuation or funding benefit adjustment (collectively, FVA) into the fair value of our uncollateralized derivatives. There is diversity in industry practice regarding FVA and such views continue to evolve. We continue to evaluate FVA as it relates to our valuation methodologies used to comply with applicable fair value accounting guidance.Level 3 Assets and LiabilitiesFinancial assets and liabilities where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting guidance. The Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include certain loans, MBS, ABS, &nbsp;CDOs, CLOs and structured liabilities, as well as highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, private equity investments and consumer MSRs. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.During 2013, we recognized net gains of $2.0 billion&#32;on Level 3 assets and liabilities. The net gains were primarily gains on MSRs and trading account assets, partially offset by losses on net derivative assets and other assets. Gains on MSRs were primarily due to the impact of the increase in interest rates on forecasted prepayments. Gains on trading account assets were primarily due to realized gains on the sale of corporate bonds as well as distributions received on secondary loan positions held in inventory, partially offset by unrealized losses on certain collateralized loan and debt obligations. Losses on net derivative assets were driven by unrealized losses associated with certain structured products and credit default and total return swaps, partially offset by unrealized gains associated with the performance of various index option contracts as well as gains on IRLCs. Losses on other assets were primarily due to a write-down of a receivable. There were net unrealized gains of $40 million&#32;(pre-tax) in accumulated OCI on Level 3 assets and liabilities at December&#160;31, 2013. For more information on the components of net realized and unrealized gains and losses during 2013, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Level 3 financial instruments, such as our consumer MSRs, may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital resources.We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or &nbsp;observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information on the significant transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2013, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax AssetsAccrued income taxes, reported as a component of accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100&#32;jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance,&#32;in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies, may be material to our operating results for any given period.Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more-likely-than-not to be realized.While we have established some valuation allowances for certain state and non-U.S. deferred tax assets, we have concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary with respect to all U.S. federal and U.K. deferred tax assets, including NOL and tax credit carryforwards, that are not subject to any special limitations (such as change-in-control limitations) prior to any expiration. Management's conclusion is supported by recent financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. The majority of our U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. However, significant changes to our estimates, such as changes that would be caused by substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe's capital markets, could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. See Note 19 &#8211; Income Taxes&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information.Goodwill and Intangible AssetsBackgroundThe nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;and Note 8 &#8211; Goodwill and Intangible Assets&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which for the Corporation is as of June 30, and in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below. As reporting units are determined after an acquisition or evolve with changes in business strategy, goodwill is assigned to reporting units and it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition. All of the revenue streams and related activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organic, are available to support the value of the goodwill.Effective January 1, 2013, on a prospective basis, the Corporation adjusted the amount of capital being allocated to the business segments. The adjustment reflects a refinement to the prior-year methodology (economic capital), which focused solely on internal risk-based economic capital models. The refined methodology (allocated capital) now also considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based economic capital models. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, we utilized allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying value of our reporting units. Allocated equity in the reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit.The Corporation's common stock price improved during 2013; however, our market capitalization remained below our recorded book value. We estimate that the fair value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill in aggregate as of the June 30, 2013&#32;annual goodwill impairment test was $290.9 billion and the aggregate carrying value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill, as measured by allocated equity, was $163.5 billion. The common stock market capitalization of the Corporation as of June 30, 2013&#32;was $138.2 billion&#32;($164.9 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013). As none of our reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations do not directly correlate to the &nbsp;Corporation's stock price. Although we believe it is reasonable to conclude that market capitalization could be an indicator of fair value over time, we do not believe that our current market capitalization reflects the aggregate fair value of our individual reporting units.Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. We determined the fair values of the reporting units using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach and also utilized independent valuation specialists.The market approach we used estimates the fair value of the individual reporting units by incorporating any combination of the tangible capital, book capital and earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to that of the reporting unit. The relative weight assigned to these multiples varies among the reporting units based on qualitative and quantitative characteristics, primarily the size and relative profitability of the reporting unit as compared to the comparable publicly-traded companies. Since the fair values determined under the market approach are representative of a noncontrolling interest, we added a control premium to arrive at the reporting units' estimated fair values on a controlling basis.For purposes of the income approach, we calculated discounted cash flows by taking the net present value of estimated future cash flows and an appropriate terminal value. Our discounted cash flow analysis employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount rate (i.e., cost of equity financing) for each reporting unit. The inputs to this model include the risk-free rate of return, beta, which is a measure of the level of non-diversifiable risk associated with comparable companies for each specific reporting unit, size premium to reflect the historical incremental return on stocks, market equity risk premium and in certain cases an unsystematic (company-specific) risk factor. The unsystematic risk factor is the input that specifically addresses uncertainty related to our projections of earnings and growth, including the uncertainty related to loss expectations. We utilized discount rates that we believe adequately reflect the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in our internally developed forecasts. We estimated expected rates of equity returns based on historical market returns and risk/return rates for similar industries of each reporting unit. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and actual results may differ from forecasted results.In 2013, the consumer DFS business, including $1.7 billion&#32;of goodwill, was moved from Global Banking&#32;to CBB in order to align this business more closely with our consumer lending activity and better serve the needs of our customers. In 2012, the International Wealth Management businesses within GWIM, including $230 million&#32;of goodwill, were moved to All Other&#32;in connection with our agreement to sell these businesses in a series of transactions. Certain of the sales transactions were completed in 2013 and most of the remaining sales transactions are expected to close over the next year. Prior periods were reclassified to conform to current period presentation.2013&#32;Annual Impairment TestDuring the three months ended September 30, 2013, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2013&#32;for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. In performing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as measured by allocated equity, which includes goodwill. During our 2013&#32;annual goodwill impairment test, we also evaluated the U.K. Card business, which is a reporting unit, within All Other, as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in All Other. To determine fair value, we utilized a combination of the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, we compared earnings and equity multiples of the individual reporting units to multiples of public companies comparable to the individual reporting units. The control premium used in the June&#160;30, 2013 annual goodwill impairment test was 35 percent for all reporting units. Under the income approach, we updated our assumptions to reflect the current market environment. The discount rates used in the June 30, 2013&#32;annual goodwill impairment test ranged from 11 percent to 14 percent depending on the relative risk of a reporting unit. Growth rates developed by management for individual revenue and expense items in each reporting unit ranged from (5.4) percent to 11.4 percent.Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment.As described above, during the three months ended June 30, 2013, the consumer DFS business was moved from Global Banking to&#32;CBB&#32;and subsequently constitutes a new separate reporting unit. The goodwill allocated to this reporting unit was reviewed for impairment as part of the goodwill testing process. Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Although not required, given the recent move and the results of step one, and to further substantiate the value of goodwill, we performed step two of the goodwill impairment test for this reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was estimated based on the income approach. Significant assumptions for the valuation of consumer DFS under the income approach included cash flow estimates, including expected new account growth, the discount rate and the terminal value. In performing step two, significant assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit included discount rates, loss rates and interest rates. The results of step two further supported that the goodwill for the consumer DFS reporting unit was not impaired.On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a ruling regarding the Federal Reserve's rules implementing the Financial Reform Act's Durbin Amendment. The ruling requires the Federal Reserve to reconsider the $0.21&#32;per transaction cap on debit card interchange fees. The Federal Reserve is appealing the ruling and final resolution is expected in the first half of 2014. In performing the annual goodwill impairment test for Card Services within CBB, we considered the impact of the recent ruling in determining the fair value of the reporting unit and, assuming the range initially included in the Federal Reserve's rule is used for forecasting interchange fees, no goodwill impairment would result. If the Federal Reserve, upon final resolution, implements a lower per transaction cap than the initial range, it may have a significant adverse impact on our debit card interchange fee revenue and the associated goodwill allocated to the Card Services reporting unit.&nbsp;2012&#32;Annual Impairment TestsDuring the three months ended September 30, 2012, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June&#160;30, 2012&#32;for all of our reporting units which had goodwill. Additionally, we also evaluated the U.K. Card business within All Other as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in All Other.Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their respective fair values exceeded their carrying values indicating there was no impairment. Representations and Warranties LiabilityThe methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the representations and warranties given and considers a variety of factors. Depending upon the counterparty, these factors include actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices, other economic conditions, estimated probability that we will receive a repurchase request, including consideration of whether presentation thresholds will be met, number of payments made by the borrower prior to default and estimated probability that we will be required to repurchase a loan. It also considers other relevant facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements and identity of the counterparty or type of counterparty, as appropriate. The estimate of the liability for obligations under representations and warranties is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors, including those set forth above, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of our liability.The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined based on the level and type of repurchase requests presented, defects identified, the latest experience gained on repurchase requests, and other relevant facts and circumstances. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of 10&#32;percent in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $550 million&#32;in the representations and warranties liability as of December&#160;31, 2013. These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity.For more information on representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations &#8211; Representations and Warranties&#32;on page 52, as well as Note 7 &#8211; Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees&#32;and Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Litigation ReserveIn accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation establishes an accrued liability for litigation and regulatory matters when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. When a loss contingency is not both probable and estimable, the Corporation does not establish an accrued liability. As a litigation or regulatory matter develops, the Corporation, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, evaluates on an ongoing basis whether such matter presents a loss contingency that is both probable and estimable. If, at the time of evaluation, the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is not both probable and estimable, the matter will continue to be monitored for further developments that would make such loss contingency both probable and estimable. Once the loss contingency related to a litigation or regulatory matter is deemed to be both probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an accrued liability with respect to such loss contingency and record a corresponding amount of litigation-related expense. The Corporation will continue to monitor the matter for further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability that has been previously established.For a limited number of the matters disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, we are able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, the estimated range of possible loss represents what we believe to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation's maximum loss exposure. Information is provided in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies.&nbsp;Consolidation and Accounting for Variable Interest EntitiesIn accordance with applicable accounting guidance, an entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE.Determining whether an entity has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires significant judgment. An entity must assess the purpose and design of the VIE, including explicit and implicit contractual arrangements, and the entity's involvement in both the design of the VIE and its ongoing activities. The entity must then determine which activities have the most significant impact on the economic performance of the VIE and whether the entity has the power to direct such activities. For VIEs that hold financial assets, the party that services the assets or makes investment management decisions may have the power to direct the most significant activities of a VIE. Alternatively, a third party that has the unilateral right to replace the servicer or investment manager or to liquidate the VIE may be deemed to be the party with power. If there are no significant ongoing activities, the party that was responsible for the design of the VIE may be deemed to have power. If the entity determines that it has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE, then the entity must determine if it has either an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Such economic interests may include investments in debt or equity instruments issued by the VIE, liquidity commitments, and explicit and implicit guarantees.On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether we have acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether we have acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which we are involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements.2012 Compared to 2011The following discussion and analysis provide a comparison of our results of operations for 2012&#32;and 2011. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Tables 7&#32;and 8&#32;contain financial data to supplement this discussion.OverviewNet IncomeNet income was $4.2 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $1.4 billion&#32;in 2011. Including preferred stock dividends, net income applicable to common shareholders was $2.8 billion, or $0.25&#32;per diluted share for 2012 and $85 million, or $0.01&#32;per diluted share for 2011.Net Interest IncomeNet interest income on a FTE basis was $41.6 billion&#32;for 2012, a decrease of $4.0 billion compared to 2011. The decline was primarily due to lower consumer loan balances and yields, recouponing of the ALM portfolio to a lower yield and decreased commercial loan yields. Lower trading-related net interest income also negatively impacted 2012&#32;results. These decreases were partially offset by ongoing reductions in long-term debt and lower rates paid on deposits. The net interest yield on a FTE basis was 2.35 percent&#32;for 2012, a decrease of 13 bps compared to 2011&#32;as the yield continued to be under pressure due to the aforementioned items and the low rate environment.Noninterest IncomeNoninterest income was $42.7 billion&#32;in 2012, a decrease of $6.2 billion&#32;compared to 2011. &nbsp;billion in representations and warranties provision related to the agreement to resolve nearly all legacy Countrywide-issued first-lien non-GSE RMBS repurchase exposures and other non-GSE exposures.Provision for Credit LossesThe provision for credit losses was $8.2 billion&#32;for 2012, a decrease of $5.2 billion&#32;compared to 2011. The provision for credit losses was $6.7 billion lower than net charge-offs for 2012, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses driven by improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in consumer real estate products, lower bankruptcy filings and delinquencies affecting the credit card portfolio, and improvement in overall credit quality within the core commercial portfolio.Net charge-offs totaled $14.9 billion, or 1.67 percent of average loans and leases for 2012&#32;compared to $20.8 billion, or 2.24 percent for 2011. The decrease in net charge-offs was primarily driven by fewer delinquent loans and lower bankruptcy filings in the credit card portfolio, as well as lower net charge-offs in the consumer real estate and core commercial portfolios in 2012.Noninterest ExpenseNoninterest expense was $72.1 billion&#32;for 2012, a decrease of $8.2 billion&#32;compared to 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by $3.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges in 2011 and none in 2012, a $2.8 billion decrease in other general operating expense primarily related to lower litigation expense and mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays, partially offset by a provision of $1.1 billion in 2012 related to the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement. Personnel expense decreased $1.3 billion in 2012 as we continued to streamline processes and achieve cost savings. Partially offsetting the decreases were increases in professional fees and data processing expenses due to continuing default management activities in Legacy Assets & Servicing. Also, 2011 included $638 million in merger and restructuring charges.Income Tax BenefitThe income tax benefit was $1.1 billion&#32;on pre-tax income of $3.1 billion&#32;for 2012&#32;compared to an income tax benefit of $1.7 billion&#32;on the pre-tax loss of $230 million&#32;for 2011. Included in the income tax benefit for 2012 was a $1.7 billion tax benefit attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability. Also included in the income tax benefit was a $788 million charge to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K. deferred tax assets due to the two percent U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in 2012. Our effective tax rate for 2012 excluding these two items was a benefit of seven percent and differed from the statutory rate due to the impact of our recurring tax preference items (e.g., affordable housing credits and tax-exempt income) on the level of pre-tax earnings.The income tax benefit for 2011 was driven by our recurring tax preference items, a $1.0 billion benefit from the release of the remaining valuation allowance applicable to the Merrill Lynch capital loss carryover deferred tax asset and a benefit of $823 million for planned realization of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets related to the tax basis in certain subsidiaries. These benefits were partially offset by a $782 million charge for the two percent U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in 2011. The $3.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges recorded during 2011 were non-deductible.Business Segment OperationsConsumer & Business BankingCBB&#32;recorded net income of $5.5 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $7.8 billion&#32;in 2011&#32;with the decrease primarily due to lower revenue and higher provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased $2.4 billion&#32;to $19.9 billion&#32;due to lower average loan balances as well as compressed deposit spreads due to the continued low rate environment. Noninterest income decreased $1.6 billion&#32;to $9.9 billion&#32;due to lower interchange fees as a result of implementing the Durbin Amendment, lower gains on sales of portfolios and the impact of charges related to our consumer protection products. The provision for credit losses increased $471 million&#32;to $4.1 billion&#32;as portfolio trends stabilized during 2012. Noninterest expense decreased $917 million&#32;to $17.0 billion&#32;primarily due to lower FDIC and operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in litigation expense.Consumer Real Estate ServicesCRES recorded a net loss of $6.4 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $19.4 billion&#32;in 2011&#32;with the decrease in the net loss primarily driven by mortgage banking income of $5.6 billion&#32;in 2012 compared to a loss of $8.1 billion in 2011. The representations and warranties provision for 2011, which is included in mortgage banking income, included $8.6 billion related to the settlement with BNY Mellon and $7.0 billion related to other non-GSE, and to a lesser extent, GSE exposures. Also contributing to the decrease in the net loss was a decrease in the provision for credit losses and a decline in noninterest expense, partially offset by lower other noninterest income. Mortgage banking income increased $13.7 billion due to an $11.7 decrease in the representations and warranties provision, and higher servicing income and core production revenue. The provision for credit losses decreased $3.1 billion&#32;to $1.4 billion&#32;due to improved portfolio trends and increasing home prices in both the non-PCI and PCI home equity loan portfolios. Noninterest expense decreased $4.5 billion&#32;to $17.2 billion&#32;due to a decline in litigation expense and lower mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays, partially offset by higher default-related servicing costs and a provision for the 2013 IFR Acceleration Agreement. Noninterest expense in 2011 included a $2.6 billion goodwill impairment charge.Global Wealth & Investment ManagementGWIM&#32;recorded net income of $2.2 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $1.7 billion&#32;in 2011&#32;with the increase driven by lower noninterest expense and lower provision for credit losses. Revenue remained &nbsp;relatively unchanged as an increase in asset management fees due to higher AUM flows and higher market levels was offset by lower transactional revenue and lower net interest income due to the impact of the continued low rate environment. The provision for credit losses decreased $132 million&#32;to $266 million&#32;driven by lower delinquencies and improving portfolio trends within the residential mortgage portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $615 million&#32;to $12.7 billion&#32;due to lower FDIC expense, lower litigation costs and other expense reductions, partially offset by higher production-related expenses.Global BankingGlobal Banking&#32;recorded net income of $5.3 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $5.6 billion&#32;in 2011&#32;with the decrease primarily driven by an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower noninterest expense. Revenue remained relatively unchanged with lower investment banking fees and lower net interest income as a result of spread compression and the benefit in the prior year from higher accretion on acquired portfolios, largely offset by the impact of higher average loan and deposit balances and gains on liquidation of certain legacy portfolios. The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $342 million&#32;compared to a benefit of $1.3 billion&#32;in 2011 with the reduction in the benefit reflecting stabilization of asset quality, core commercial loan growth and the impact of a higher volume of loan resolutions in the commercial real estate portfolio in the prior year. Noninterest expense decreased $410 million&#32;to $7.6 billion&#32;primarily due to lower personnel and operating expenses.Global MarketsGlobal Markets&#32;recorded net income of $1.2 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to $1.1 billion&#32;in 2011. Sales and trading revenue decreased due to net DVA losses compared to net DVA gains in the prior year. Excluding net DVA, sales and trading revenue increased $2.4 billion primarily driven by our FICC business as a result of improved performance in our rates and currencies, and credit-related businesses due to an improved global economic climate, and a gain on the sale of an equity investment. Noninterest expense decreased $1.6 billion&#32;to $11.3 billion&#32;due to a reduction in personnel-related expenses and in brokerage, clearing and exchange fees, and other operating expenses. Income tax expense included a $781 million charge for remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets due to decreases in the U.K. corporate tax rate compared to a similar charge of $774 million in 2011.All OtherAll Other&#32;recorded a net loss of $3.7 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;compared to net income of $4.6 billion&#32;in 2011&#32;primarily due to negative fair value adjustments on structured liabilities of $5.1 billion related to the improvement in our credit spreads in 2012 compared to $3.3 billion of positive fair value adjustments in 2011, a $6.0 billion decrease in equity investment income as 2011 included a $6.5 billion gain on the sale of portion of our investment in CCB, and lower gains on sales of debt securities. Partially offsetting these items was a reduction in the provision for credit losses of $3.6 billion&#32;to $2.6 billion. The income tax benefit included $1.7 billion attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability.Statistical Tablesn/m = not meaningfulFor footnotes see page 138.For footnotes see page&#160;140.GlossaryAlt-A Mortgage &#8211; A type of U.S. mortgage that, for various reasons, is considered riskier than A-paper, or &#8220;prime,&#8221; and less risky than &#8220;subprime,&#8221; the riskiest category. Alt-A interest rates, which are determined by credit risk, therefore tend to be between those of prime and subprime home loans. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores and higher LTVs.Assets in Custody &#8211; Consist largely of custodial and non-discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets administered for clients. Trust assets encompass a broad range of asset types including real estate, private company ownership interest, personal property and investments.Assets Under Management (AUM)&#32;&#8211; The total market value of assets under the investment advisory and discretion of GWIM&#32;which generate asset management fees based on a percentage of the assets' market values. AUM reflects assets that are generally managed for institutional, high net-worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate accounts.Basel 1 &#8211;&#32;2013 Rules &#8211; Financial services holding companies are subject to the general risk-based capital rules issued by federal banking regulators which was Basel 1 through December 31, 2012. As of January 1, 2013, Basel 1 was amended prospectively, introducing changes to the measurement of risk-weighted assets for exposures subject to market risk.Carrying Value (with respect to loans)&#32;&#8211; The amount at which a loan is recorded on the balance sheet. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For PCI loans, the carrying value equals fair value upon acquisition adjusted for subsequent cash collections and yield accreted to date. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held-for-sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For loans for which we have elected the fair value option, the carrying value is fair value.Client Brokerage Assets&#32;&#8211; Include client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. This includes non-discretionary brokerage and fee-based assets which generate brokerage income and asset management fee revenue.Committed Credit Exposure&#32;&#8211; Includes any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed conditions.&nbsp;Credit Derivatives &#8211; Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one or more referenced obligations. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection purchaser and protection seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events generally include bankruptcy or insolvency of the referenced credit entity, failure to meet payment obligations when due, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. The purchaser of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of such a credit event. A credit default swap is a type of a credit derivative.Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments. Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the Corporation's own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments.Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)&#32;&#8211; Commitment with a loan applicant in which the loan terms, including interest rate and price, are guaranteed for a designated period of time subject to credit approval.Letter of Credit&#32;&#8211; A document issued on behalf of a customer to a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the issuer's credit for that of the customer. Loan-to-value (LTV)&#32;&#8211; A commonly used credit quality metric that is reported in terms of ending and average LTV. Ending LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan at the end of the period divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. Estimated property values are primarily determined by utilizing the Case-Schiller Home Index, a widely used index based on data from repeat sales of single family homes. Case-Schiller indices are updated quarterly and are reported on a three-month or one-quarter lag. An additional metric related to LTV is combined loan-to-value (CLTV)&#32;which is similar to the LTV metric, yet combines the outstanding balance on the residential mortgage loan and the outstanding carrying value on the home equity loan or available line of credit, both of which are secured by the same property, divided by the estimated value of the property. A LTV of 100 percent reflects a loan that is currently secured by a property valued at an amount exactly equal to the carrying value or available line of the loan. Under certain circumstances, estimated values can also be determined by utilizing an automated valuation method (AVM) or Mortgage Risk Assessment Corporation (MRAC) index. An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to large volumes of market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the MSA in which the property being valued is located. The MRAC index is similar to the Case-Schiller Home Index in that it is an index that is based on data from repeat sales of single family homes and is reported on a lag.Margin Receivable&#32;&#8211;&#32;An extension of credit secured by eligible securities in certain brokerage accounts.Matched-book&#32;&#8211; Repurchase and resale agreements and securities borrowed and loaned transactions entered into to accommodate customers and earn interest rate spreads.Mortgage Servicing Right (MSR) &#8211; The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors.Net Interest Yield&#32;&#8211; Net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets.Nonperforming Loans and Leases&#32;&#8211; Includes loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties (TDRs). Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. Consumer credit card loans, business card loans, consumer loans secured by personal property (except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR), and consumer loans secured by real estate that are insured by the FHA or through long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (fully-insured loan portfolio), are not placed on nonaccrual status and are, therefore, not reported as nonperforming loans and leases.Purchased Credit-impaired (PCI) Loan&#32;&#8211; A loan purchased as an individual loan, in a portfolio of loans or in a business combination with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable, upon acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments. These loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition.Subprime Loans&#32;&#8211; Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors, such as low FICO scores, high debt to income ratios and inferior payment history.&nbsp;Tier 1 Common Capital &#8211; Tier 1 capital less preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities, hybrid securities and qualifying noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries.Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)&#32;&#8211; Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, loans discharged in bankruptcy or other actions intended to maximize collection. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge from bankruptcy. TDRs are generally reported as nonperforming loans and leases while on nonaccrual status. Nonperforming TDRs may be returned to accrual status when, among other criteria, payment in full of all amounts due under the restructured terms is expected and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months. TDRs that are on accrual status are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the restructuring occurred or the year in which they are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they would be placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs.Value-at-Risk (VaR)&#32;&#8211; VaR is a model that simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios. Acronyms&#32;<hr 
