>The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of December&#160;31, 2014, the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance for all major consumer portfolios compared to December&#160;31, 2013.The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the LGD based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor's liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor's credit risk. As of December&#160;31, 2014, the allowance increased for all major commercial portfolios compared to December&#160;31, 2013.Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. We also consider factors that are applicable to unique portfolio segments. For example, we consider the risk of uncertainty in our loss forecasting models related to junior-lien home equity loans that are current, but have first-lien &nbsp;loans that we do not service that are 30 days or more past due. In addition, we consider the increased risk of default associated with our interest-only loans that have yet to enter the amortization period. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data.During 2014, the factors that impacted the allowance for loan and lease losses included overall improvements in the credit quality of the portfolios driven by continuing improvements in the U.S. economy and housing and labor markets, continuing proactive credit risk management initiatives and the impact of recent higher credit quality originations. Additionally, the resolution of uncertainties through current recognition of net charge-offs has impacted the amount of reserve needed in certain portfolios. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. economy and housing and labor markets are modest growth in consumer spending, improvements in unemployment levels, a decrease in the absolute level and our share of national consumer bankruptcy filings, and a rise in both residential building activity and overall home prices. In addition to these improvements, paydowns, charge-offs, sales, returns to performing status and upgrades out of criticized continued to outpace new nonaccrual loans and reservable criticized commercial loans.We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios.Additions to, or reductions of, the allowance for loan and lease losses generally are recorded through charges or credits to the provision for credit losses. Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan and lease losses. Recoveries of previously charged off amounts are credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses.The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in Table 60, was $10.0 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, a decrease&#32;of $3.4 billion&#32;from December&#160;31, 2013. The decrease&#32;was primarily in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios due to increased home prices, as evidenced by improving LTV statistics as presented in Tables 28&#32;and 30, improved delinquencies and a decrease in consumer loan balances. Further, the residential mortgage and home equity allowance declined due to write-offs in our PCI loan portfolio. These write-offs decreased the PCI valuation allowance included as part of the allowance for loan and lease losses.The decrease in the allowance related to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in CBB&#32;was primarily due to improvement in delinquencies and bankruptcies. For example, in the U.S. credit card portfolio, accruing loans 30 days or more past due decreased&#32;to $1.7 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;from $2.1 billion&#32;(to 1.85 percent&#32;from 2.25 percent&#32;of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at December&#160;31, 2013, and accruing loans 90 days or more past due decreased&#32;to $866 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;from $1.1 billion&#32;(to 0.94 percent&#32;from 1.14 percent&#32;of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at December&#160;31, 2013. See Tables 25, 26, 35&#32;and 37&#32;for additional details on key credit statistics for the credit card and other unsecured consumer lending portfolios.The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in Table 60, was $4.4 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, an increase&#32;of $432 million&#32;from December&#160;31, 2013. The commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure decreased&#32;to $11.6 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;from $12.9 billion&#32;(to 2.74 percent&#32;from 3.02 percent&#32;of total commercial utilized reservable exposure) at December&#160;31, 2013. Nonperforming commercial loans decreased&#32;$196 million&#32;from December&#160;31, 2013&#32;to $1.1 billion&#32;(to 0.29 percent&#32;from 0.34 percent&#32;of outstanding commercial loans) at December&#160;31, 2014. See Tables 41, 42&#32;and 44&#32;for additional details on key commercial credit statistics.The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 1.65 percent&#32;at &nbsp;December&#160;31, 2014&#32;compared to 1.90 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. The decrease&#32;in the ratio was primarily due to improved credit quality driven by improved economic conditions and write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio. The December 31, 2014 and 2013&#32;ratios above include the PCI loan portfolio. Excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was 1.50 percent&#32;and 1.67 percent&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;and 2013.Table 59&#32;presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for 2014&#32;and 2013.For reporting purposes, we allocate the allowance for credit losses across products. However, the allowance is generally available to absorb any credit losses without restriction. Table 60&#32;presents our allocation by product type.Reserve for Unfunded Lending CommitmentsIn addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers' acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of the Corporation's historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded EAD. The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models.The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was $528 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014, an increase&#32;of $44 million&#32;from December&#160;31, 2013. The increase&#32;was driven by increases in expected loss.Market Risk ManagementMarket risk is the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our Global Markets&#32;segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on the results of the Corporation. For additional information, see Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities&#32;on page&#160;105.Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option.Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section.A subcommittee has been designated by the MRC as the primary risk governance authority for Global Markets (Global Markets, or GM subcommittee). The GM subcommittee's focus is to take a forward-looking view of the primary credit, market and operational risks impacting Global Markets&#32;and prioritize those that need a proactive risk mitigation strategy.&nbsp;Global Markets Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which the Corporation is exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of Global Markets&#32;are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions.Quantitative risk models, such as VaR, are an essential component in evaluating the market risks within a portfolio. A subcommittee of the MRC is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance (Risk Management, or RM subcommittee). The RM subcommittee defines model risk standards, consistent with the Corporation's risk framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. Models must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the model development process and a sufficient demonstration of developmental evidence incorporating a comparison of alternative theories and approaches. The RM subcommittee ensures model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation. In addition, the relevant stakeholders must agree on any required actions or restrictions to the models and maintain a stringent monitoring process to ensure continued compliance.For more information on the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Interest Rate RiskInterest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps.Foreign Exchange RiskForeign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S.&#160;interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits.Mortgage RiskMortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. First, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including CDOs using mortgages as underlying collateral. Second, we originate a variety of MBS which involves the accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization. Third, we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. Fourth, we create MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. For more information on MSRs, see Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;and Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards. For additional information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management&#32;on page 108.Equity Market RiskEquity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions.Commodity RiskCommodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions.Issuer Credit RiskIssuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments.Market Liquidity RiskMarket liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management.&nbsp;Trading Risk ManagementTo evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments.VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level. This means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days.Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience.VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A relatively minor portion of risks related to our trading positions are not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP.Global Markets Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate management committees.Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are monitored on a daily basis. These trading limits are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a granular level to ensure extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually and the MRC has given authority to the GM subcommittee to approve changes to trading limits throughout the year. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation's Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are monitored on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the ERC and the Board.In periods of market stress, the GM subcommittee members communicate daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk.Market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in Table 61&#32;differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations (regulatory VaR). The VaR disclosed in Table 61&#32;excludes both CVA, which are adjustments to the mark-to-market value of our derivative exposures to reflect the impact of the credit quality of counterparties on our derivative assets, and the corresponding hedges. Current regulatory standards require that regulatory VaR &nbsp;only exclude CVA but include the corresponding hedges. The holding period for regulatory VaR for capital calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented below, it is one day. Except for the differences between regulatory and market risk VaR regarding the inclusion of CVA hedges and the holding period, both measures utilize the same process and methodology.To provide visibility of market risks to which the Corporation is exposed, Table 61&#32;presents the total market-based trading portfolio VaR which includes our total covered positions trading portfolio and the impact from less liquid trading exposures. Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where the Corporation is able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets, or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that we choose to exclude with prior regulatory approval. Certain positions related to our CVA and corresponding hedges are considered covered positions; however, these are excluded from the VaR results presented in Table 61. In addition, Table 61&#32;presents our fair value option portfolio, which includes the funded and unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their corresponding hedges. The fair value option portfolio combined with the total market-based trading portfolio VaR represents the Corporation's total market-based portfolio VaR. This population is consistent with the risk appetite limits set by the ERC and the Board.The market risk across all business segments to which the Corporation is exposed is included in the total market-based portfolio VaR results. The majority of this portfolio is within the Global Markets&#32;segment.Table 61&#32;presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for 2014&#32;and 2013&#32;using a 99 percent confidence level.The year-end and the average total market-based trading portfolio VaR decreased&#32;during 2014&#32;due to elevated market volatility experienced during the 2011 roll-out of the three-year window of historical data used in the VaR calculation. Additionally, a smaller impact to the reduction in total market-based trading &nbsp;portfolio VaR was due to an overall reduction from portfolio changes.The graph below presents the daily total market-based trading portfolio VaR for 2014, corresponding to the data in Table 61.Additional VaR statistics produced within the Corporation's single VaR model are provided in Table 62&#32;at the same level of detail as in Table 61. Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio &nbsp;as the historical market data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution. Table 62&#32;presents average trading VaR statistics for 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for 2014&#32;and 2013.BacktestingThe accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss and to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. As our primary VaR statistic used for backtesting is based on a 99 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days, or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation.We conduct daily backtesting on our portfolios, ranging from the total market-based portfolio to individual trading areas. Additionally, we conduct daily backtesting on our regulatory VaR results as well as the VaR results for key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are reported to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests.The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the &nbsp;types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intraday trading revenues. In addition, CVA is not included in the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation and is therefore not included in the revenue used for backtesting of the regulatory VaR results.During 2014, there were no days in which there was a backtesting excess for our total market-based portfolio, utilizing a one-day holding period. There were three backtesting excesses for our regulatory VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, due to increased volatility during the three months ended December&#160;31, 2014.Total Trading RevenueTotal trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Trading-related revenues can be volatile and are largely driven by general market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenues are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenues by business are monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed. When it is deemed material, an explanation of these revenues is provided to the GM subcommittee.The histogram below is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for 2014&#32;and 2013. During 2014, positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 95 percent of the trading days, of which 72 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss &nbsp;was $17 million. This compares to 2013&#32;where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 96 percent of the trading days, of which 74 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss was $54 million.Trading Portfolio Stress TestingBecause the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements.A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a 10-business day window or longer representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical scenarios provide simulations of the estimated portfolio impact from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing &nbsp;positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or adhoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events. For example, a stress test was conducted to estimate the impact of a significant increase in global interest rates and the corresponding impact across other asset classes. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management.Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. A process is in place to promote consistency between the scenarios used for the trading portfolio and those used for enterprise-wide stress testing. The scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For additional information, see Managing Risk &#8211; Corporation-wide Stress Testing&#32;on page 58.Interest Rate Risk Management for Nontrading ActivitiesThe following discussion presents net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities.Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our non-trading balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet.We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes.The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing and maturity characteristics. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital.Table 63&#32;presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at December 31, 2014 and 2013.Table 64&#32;shows the pretax dollar impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from December 31, 2014 and 2013, resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically, we evaluate the scenarios presented to ensure that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment. For more &nbsp;information on net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities, see page 33.We continue to be asset-sensitive to both a parallel move in interest rates and a long-end led steepening of the yield curve. Additionally, rising interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near term adverse impact to accumulated OCI and Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive impacts to net interest income. For more information on the phase-in provisions of Basel 3 including accumulated OCI, see Capital Management &#8211; Regulatory Capital&#32;on page 59.The sensitivity analysis in Table 64&#32;assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity.The behavior of our deposit portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in Table 64&#32;assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher-yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce the Corporation's benefit in those scenarios.SecuritiesThe securities portfolio is an integral part of our interest rate risk management, which includes our ALM positioning, and is primarily comprised of debt securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. As part of the ALM positioning, we use derivatives to hedge interest rate and duration risk. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, our debt securities portfolio had a carrying value of $380.5 billion&#32;and $323.9 billion.During 2014&#32;and 2013, we purchased debt securities of $293.8 billion&#32;and $190.4 billion, sold $157.7 billion&#32;and $117.7 billion, and had maturities and received paydowns of $87.6 billion&#32;and $94.0 billion, respectively. We realized $1.4 billion&#32;and $1.3 billion&#32;in net gains on sales of AFS debt securities.At December&#160;31, 2014, accumulated OCI included after-tax net unrealized gains&#32;of $1.3 billion&#32;on AFS debt securities and after-tax net unrealized gains&#32;of $17 million&#32;on AFS marketable equity securities compared to after-tax net unrealized losses of $3.3 billion&#32;and after-tax net unrealized losses of $4 million&#32;at December&#160;31, 2013. For more information on accumulated OCI, see Note 14 &#8211; Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The pretax net amounts in accumulated OCI related to AFS debt securities increased $7.4 billion&#32;during 2014&#32;to a $2.2 billion&#32;net unrealized gain&#32;primarily due to the impact of interest rates. For more information on our securities portfolio, see Note 3 &#8211; Securities&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We recognized $16 million&#32;of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) losses in earnings on AFS debt securities in 2014&#32;compared to losses of $20 million&#32;in 2013. OTTI losses during 2014&#32;and 2013&#32;were on non-agency RMBS and were recorded in other income on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The recognition of OTTI losses is based on a variety of factors, including the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than amortized cost, the financial condition of the issuer of the security including credit ratings and any specific events affecting the operations of the issuer, underlying assets that collateralize the debt security, other industry and macroeconomic conditions, and our intent and ability to hold the security to recovery.Residential Mortgage PortfolioAt December 31, 2014 and 2013, our residential mortgage portfolio was $216.2 billion&#32;and $248.1 billion&#32;excluding $1.9 billion&#32;and $2.0 billion&#32;of consumer residential mortgage loans accounted for under the fair value option at each period end. For more information on consumer fair value option loans, see Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management &#8211; Consumer Loans &nbsp;Accounted for Under the Fair Value Option&#32;on page 82. The $31.9 billion&#32;decrease&#32;in 2014&#32;was primarily due to paydowns, sales, charge-offs and transfers to foreclosed properties. Of the decline, more than 50 percent was due to the sale of $10.7 billion of loans with standby insurance agreements and $6.7 billion of nonperforming and other delinquent loan sales. These were partially offset by new origination volume retained on our balance sheet, as well as repurchases of delinquent loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA, which are part of our mortgage banking activities.During 2014, CRES&#32;and GWIM&#32;originated $23.2 billion of first-lien mortgages that we retained compared to $44.5 billion in 2013. We received paydowns of $37.8 billion in 2014&#32;compared to $53.0 billion in 2013. We repurchased $5.0 billion of loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA and redelivered $3.6 billion, primarily FHA-insured loans, compared to repurchases of $10.4 billion and redeliveries of $5.0 billion in 2013. Sales of loans, excluding redelivered FHA-insured loans, during 2014&#32;were $17.4 billion compared to $4.0 billion in 2013. Gains recognized on the sales of residential mortgage loans during 2014&#32;were $668 million compared to $75 million in 2013.Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative ContractsInterest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities.Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during 2014&#32;reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions.Table 65&#32;presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and economic hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted-average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at December 31, 2014 and 2013. These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs.We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were $2.7 billion&#32;and $3.6 billion, on a pretax basis, at December 31, 2014 and 2013. These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at December&#160;31, 2014, the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows: $803 million, or 30 percent within the next year, 46 percent in years two through five, and 16 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining eight percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see Note 2 &#8211; Derivatives&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at December&#160;31, 2014.Mortgage Banking Risk ManagementWe originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be HFI or held-for-sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate.Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Fluctuations in interest rates drive consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity, which in turn affects total origination and servicing income. Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires complex modeling and ongoing monitoring. Typically, an increase in mortgage interest rates will lead to a decrease in mortgage originations and related fees. IRLCs and the related residential first mortgage LHFS are subject to interest rate risk between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market, as an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to a decrease in the value of these instruments.MSRs are nonfinancial assets created when the underlying mortgage loan is sold to investors and we retain the right to service the loan. Typically, an increase in mortgage rates will lead to an increase in the value of the MSRs driven by lower prepayment expectations. This increase in value from increases in mortgage rates is opposite of, and therefore offsets, the risk described for IRLCs and LHFS. Previously we hedged MSRs separately from the IRLCs and first mortgage LHFS assets. Because the interest rate risks of these two hedged items offset, we decided to combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio.&nbsp;Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014, interest rate and certain market risks of IRLCs and residential mortgage LHFS were economically hedged in combination with MSRs. To hedge these combined assets, we use certain derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward sale commitments, eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures, and mortgage TBAs, as well as other securities including agency MBS, principal-only and interest-only MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. The fair value and notional amounts of the derivative contracts and the fair value of securities hedging the combined MSRs, IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS were $(3.6) billion, $1.1 trillion and $558 million at December&#160;31, 2014. The fair value and notional amounts of the derivative contracts and the fair value of securities hedging the MSRs at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;were $(2.9) billion, $1.8 trillion and $2.5 billion. The notional amount of derivatives economically hedging only the IRLCs and residential first mortgage LHFS at December&#160;31, 2013&#32;were $7.9 billion. In 2014, we recorded in mortgage banking income gains of $1.6 billion related to the change in fair value of the derivative contracts and other securities used to hedge the market risks of the MSRs compared to losses of $1.1 billion for 2013. For more information on MSRs, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;and for more information on mortgage banking income, see CRES&#32;on page 38.Compliance Risk ManagementCompliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation in the event of the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations). Global Compliance independently assesses compliance risk, and evaluates adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying compliance issues and risks, performing monitoring and testing, and reporting on the state of compliance activities across the Corporation. Additionally, Global Compliance works with FLUs and control functions so that day-to-day activities operate in a compliant manner. For more information on FLUs and control functions, see Managing Risk&#32;on page 55.The Corporation's approach to the management of compliance risk is further described in the Global Compliance Policy, which outlines the requirements of the Corporation's global compliance program, and defines roles and responsibilities related to the implementation, execution and management of the compliance program by Global Compliance. The requirements work together to drive a comprehensive risk-based approach for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance risks throughout the Corporation.The Global Compliance Policy sets the requirements for reporting compliance risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees with an outline for conducting objective oversight of the Corporation's compliance risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risks through its Audit Committee and ERC.Operational Risk ManagementThe Corporation defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including outsourced business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Its effects may extend beyond financial losses. Operational risk includes legal risk. Successful operational risk management is particularly important to diversified financial services companies because of the nature, volume and complexity of the financial services business. Operational risk is a significant component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital estimate under the Advanced approaches. For more information on Basel 3 Advanced approaches, see Capital Management &#8211; Advanced Approaches&#32;on page 61. We approach operational risk management from two perspectives within the structure of the Corporation: (1) at the enterprise level to provide independent, integrated management of operational risk across the organization, and (2) at the business and control function levels to address operational risk in revenue producing and non-revenue producing units. The Operational Risk Management Program addresses the overarching processes for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling operational risk, and reporting operational risk information to management and the Board. A sound internal governance structure enhances the effectiveness of the Corporation's Operational Risk Management Program and is accomplished at the enterprise level through formal oversight by the Board, the ERC, the CRO and a variety of management committees and risk oversight groups aligned to the Corporation's overall risk governance framework and practices. Of these, the MRC oversees the Corporation's policies and processes for sound operational risk management. The MRC also serves as an escalation point for critical operational risk matters within the Corporation. The MRC reports operational risk activities to the ERC. The independent operational risk management teams oversee the businesses and control functions to monitor adherence to the Operational Risk Management Program and advise and challenge operational risk exposures.Within the Global Risk Management organization, the Corporate Operational Risk team develops and guides the strategies, enterprise-wide policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for assessing and managing operational risks across the organization and reports results to businesses, control functions, senior management, governance committees and the ERC and the Board.The businesses and control functions are responsible for assessing, monitoring and managing all the risks within their units, including operational risks. In addition to enterprise risk management tools such as loss reporting, scenario analysis and RCSAs, operational risk executives, working in conjunction with senior business executives, have developed key tools to help identify, measure, monitor and control risk in each business and control function. Examples of these include personnel management practices; data reconciliation processes; fraud management units; cybersecurity controls, processes and systems; transaction processing, monitoring and analysis; business recovery planning; and new product introduction processes. The business and control functions are also responsible for consistently implementing and monitoring adherence to corporate practices.Business and control function management uses the enterprise RCSA process to capture the identification and &nbsp;assessment of operational risk exposures and evaluate the status of risk and control issues including mitigation plans, as appropriate. The goals of this process are to assess changing market and business conditions, evaluate key risks impacting each business and control function, and assess the controls in place to mitigate the risks. Key operational risk indicators for these risks have been developed and are used to assist in identifying trends and issues on an enterprise, business and control function level. Independent review and challenge to the Corporation's overall operational risk management framework is performed by the Corporate Operational Risk Program Adherence Team and reported through the operational risk governance committees and management routines.Where appropriate, insurance policies are purchased to mitigate the impact of operational losses. These insurance policies are explicitly incorporated in the structural features of operational risk evaluation. As insurance recoveries, especially given recent market events, are subject to legal and financial uncertainty, the inclusion of these insurance policies is subject to reductions in their expected mitigating benefits.Complex Accounting EstimatesOur significant accounting principles, as described in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are essential in understanding the MD&A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments.The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs.Allowance for Credit LossesThe allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management's estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation's loan portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluate our allowance at the portfolio segment level and our portfolio segments are Home Loans, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. Due to the variability in the drivers of the assumptions used in this process, estimates of the portfolio's inherent risks and overall collectability change with changes in the economy, individual industries, countries, and borrowers' ability and willingness to repay their obligations. The degree to which any particular assumption affects the allowance for credit losses depends on the severity of the change and its relationship to the other assumptions.Key judgments used in determining the allowance for credit losses include risk ratings for pools of commercial loans and leases, market and collateral values and discount rates for individually evaluated loans, product type classifications for consumer and commercial loans and leases, loss rates used for consumer and commercial loans and leases, adjustments made to address current events and conditions, considerations regarding domestic and global economic uncertainty, and overall credit conditions.Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Home Loans and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Home Loans portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;would have increased by $84 million. PCI loans within our Home Loans portfolio segment are initially recorded at fair value. Applicable accounting guidance prohibits carry-over or creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting. However, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition result in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to the allowance for loan and lease losses. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one percent decrease in the expected cash flows could result in a $169 million impairment of the portfolio. For each one percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, coupled with a one percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;would have increased by $45 million.Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already risk-rated Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased by $2.0 billion at December&#160;31, 2014.The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at December&#160;31, 2014&#32;was 1.65 percent&#32;and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.90 percent.These sensitivity analyses do not represent management's expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss &nbsp;severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote.The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions.For more information on the Financial Accounting Standards Board's proposed standard on accounting for credit losses, see Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Mortgage Servicing RightsMSRs are nonfinancial assets that are created when a mortgage loan is sold and we retain the right to service the loan. We account for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.We determine the fair value of our consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates key economic assumptions including estimates of prepayment rates and resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs, and the option-adjusted spread levels. These variables can, and generally do, change from quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. These assumptions are subjective in nature and changes in these assumptions could materially affect our operating results. For example, increasing the prepayment rate assumption used in the valuation of our consumer MSRs by 10 percent while keeping all other assumptions unchanged could have resulted in an estimated decrease of $208 million&#32;in both MSRs and mortgage banking income for 2014. This impact does not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk.We manage potential changes in the fair value of MSRs through a comprehensive risk management program. The intent is to mitigate the effects of changes in the fair value of MSRs through the use of risk management instruments. To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income. For additional information, see Mortgage Banking Risk Management&#32;on page 108.For more information on MSRs, including the sensitivity of weighted-average lives and the fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions, see Note 23 &#8211; Mortgage Servicing Rights&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Fair Value of Financial InstrumentsWe classify the fair values of financial instruments&#32;based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.&#32;Applicable accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. We carry trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities, consumer MSRs and certain other assets at fair value. Also, we account for certain loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt under the fair value option.The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those &nbsp;developed through their own internal modeling. Similarly, broker quotes that are executable are given a higher level of reliance than indicative broker quotes, which are not executable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For additional information, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;and Note 21 &#8211; Fair Value Option&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2014, we adopted an FVA into valuation estimates primarily to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where we are not permitted to use the collateral received. This change resulted in a pretax net FVA charge of $497 million. Significant judgment is required in modeling expected exposure profiles and in discounting for the funding risk premium inherent in these derivatives. Level 3 Assets and LiabilitiesFinancial assets and liabilities where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting guidance. The Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include certain loans, MBS, ABS, CDOs, CLOs and structured liabilities, as well as highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, private equity investments and consumer MSRs. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital resources. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy &nbsp;classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information on the significant transfers into and out of Level 3 during 2014, see Note 20 &#8211; Fair Value Measurements&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax AssetsAccrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than 100&#32;jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance,&#32;in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction.Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies, may be material to our operating results for any given period.Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more-likely-than-not to be realized.While we have established valuation allowances for certain state and non-U.S. deferred tax assets, we have concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary with respect to all U.S. federal and U.K. deferred tax assets, including NOL and tax credit carryforwards, that are not subject to any special limitations (such as change-in-control limitations) prior to any expiration. Management's conclusion is supported by financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. The majority of U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. However, significant changes to our estimates, such as changes that would be caused by substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe's capital markets, or to applicable tax laws, such as laws affecting the realizability of NOLs or other deferred tax assets, could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. See Note 19 &#8211; Income Taxes&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page 15&#32;under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.&nbsp;Goodwill and Intangible AssetsBackgroundThe nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in Note 1 &#8211; Summary of Significant Accounting Principles&#32;and Note 8 &#8211; Goodwill and Intangible Assets&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which for the Corporation is as of June 30, and in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below. As reporting units are determined after an acquisition or evolve with changes in business strategy, goodwill is assigned to reporting units and it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition. All of the revenue streams and related activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organic, are available to support the value of the goodwill.For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured by allocated equity. During 2014, the Corporation made refinements to the amount of capital allocated to each of its businesses based on multiple considerations that included, but were not limited to, risk-weighted assets measured under the Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches, business segment exposures and risk profile, and strategic plans. As a result of this process, in 2014, the Corporation adjusted the amount of capital being allocated to its business segments. This change resulted in a reduction of the unallocated capital, which is reflected in All Other, and an aggregate increase to the amount of capital being allocated to the business segments. An increase in allocated capital in the business segments generally results in a reduction of the excess of the fair value over the carrying value and a reduction to the estimated fair value as a percentage of allocated carrying value for an individual reporting unit.The Corporation's common stock price improved during 2014; however, its market capitalization remained below its recorded book value. We estimate that the fair value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill in aggregate as of the June 30, 2014&#32;annual goodwill impairment test was $307.1 billion and the aggregate carrying value of all reporting units with assigned goodwill, as measured by allocated equity, was $175.7 billion. The common stock capitalization of the Corporation as of June 30, 2014&#32;was $161.6 billion&#32;($188.1 billion&#32;at December&#160;31, 2014). As none of our reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations do not directly correlate to the Corporation's stock price. Although we believe it is reasonable to conclude that market capitalization could be an indicator of fair value over time, we do not believe that our current market capitalization reflects the aggregate fair value of our individual reporting units.Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. We determined the fair values of the reporting units using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach and also utilized independent valuation specialists.The market approach we used estimates the fair value of the individual reporting units by incorporating any combination of the tangible capital, book capital and earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to that of the reporting unit. The relative weight assigned to these multiples varies among the reporting units based on qualitative and quantitative characteristics, primarily the size and relative profitability of the reporting unit as compared to the comparable publicly-traded companies. Since the fair values determined under the market approach are representative of a noncontrolling interest, we added a control premium to arrive at the reporting units' estimated fair values on a controlling basis.For purposes of the income approach, we calculated discounted cash flows by taking the net present value of estimated future cash flows and an appropriate terminal value. Our discounted cash flow analysis employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount rate (i.e., cost of equity financing) for each reporting unit. The inputs to this model include the risk-free rate of return, beta, which is a measure of the level of non-diversifiable risk associated with comparable companies for each specific reporting unit, size premium to reflect the historical incremental return on stocks, market equity risk premium and in certain cases an unsystematic (company-specific) risk factor. The unsystematic risk factor is the input that specifically addresses uncertainty related to our projections of earnings and growth, including the uncertainty related to loss expectations. We utilized discount rates that we believe adequately reflect the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in our internally developed forecasts. We estimated expected rates of equity returns based on historical market returns and risk/return rates for similar industries of each reporting unit. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and actual results may differ from forecasted results.2014&#32;Annual Impairment TestDuring the three months ended September 30, 2014, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2014&#32;for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. In performing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as measured by allocated equity, which includes goodwill. During our 2014&#32;annual goodwill impairment test, we also evaluated the U.K. Card business within All Other, as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in All Other. To determine fair value, we utilized a combination of the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, we compared earnings and equity multiples of the individual reporting units to multiples of public companies comparable to the individual reporting units. The control premium used in the June&#160;30, 2014&#32;annual goodwill impairment test was 30 percent for all reporting units. Under the income approach, we updated our assumptions to reflect the current market environment. The discount rates used in the June 30, 2014&#32;annual goodwill impairment test ranged from 10.5 percent to 13 percent depending on the relative risk of a reporting unit. Growth rates &nbsp;developed by management for individual revenue and expense items in each reporting unit ranged from (2.9) percent to 8.5 percent.Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment.The fair value for Card Services as of June 30, 2014&#32;no longer considers the negative impact of a July 31, 2013 court ruling regarding the Federal Reserve's rules on debit card interchange fees, which would have required the Federal Reserve to reconsider the cap on debit card interchange fees. The fair value as of June 30, 2013 considered that potential negative impact contributing to an estimated fair value as a percent of allocated carrying value of 120.3 percent.&#160;The U.S. Supreme Court indicated in January 2015 that it would not hear the challenge to the Federal Reserve's debit card interchange fee rules.2013&#32;Annual Impairment TestsDuring the three months ended September 30, 2013, we completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June&#160;30, 2013&#32;for all of our reporting units which had goodwill. Additionally, we also evaluated the U.K. Card business within All Other as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in All Other.Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their respective fair values exceeded their carrying values indicating there was no impairment. Representations and Warranties LiabilityThe methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the representations and warranties given and considers a variety of factors. Depending upon the counterparty, these factors include actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices, other economic conditions, estimated probability that we will receive a repurchase request, number of payments made by the borrower prior to default and estimated probability that we will be required to repurchase a loan. It also considers other relevant facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements and identity of the counterparty or type of counterparty, as appropriate. The estimate of the liability for obligations under representations and warranties is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors, including those set forth above, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of our liability.The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined based on the level and type of repurchase requests presented, defects identified, the latest experience gained on repurchase requests and other relevant facts and circumstances. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of 10&#32;percent in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $400 million&#32;in the representations and warranties liability as of December&#160;31, 2014. These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity.For more information on representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss, see Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations &#8211; Representations and Warranties&#32;on page 50, as well as Note 7 &#8211; Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees&#32;and Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Litigation ReserveFor a limited number of the matters disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, we are able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, the estimated range of possible loss represents what we believe to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation's maximum loss exposure. Information is provided in Note 12 &#8211; Commitments and Contingencies&#32;to the Consolidated Financial Statements&#32;regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies.Consolidation and Accounting for Variable Interest EntitiesIn accordance with applicable accounting guidance, an entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE.Determining whether an entity has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires significant judgment. An entity must assess the purpose and design of the VIE, including explicit and implicit contractual arrangements, and the entity's involvement in both the design of the VIE and its ongoing activities. The entity must then determine which activities have the most significant impact on the economic performance of the VIE and whether the entity has the power to direct such activities. For VIEs that hold financial assets, the party that services the assets or makes &nbsp;investment management decisions may have the power to direct the most significant activities of a VIE. Alternatively, a third party that has the unilateral right to replace the servicer or investment manager or to liquidate the VIE may be deemed to be the party with power. If there are no significant ongoing activities, the party that was responsible for the design of the VIE may be deemed to have power. If the entity determines that it has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE, then the entity must determine if it has either an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Such economic interests may include investments in debt or equity instruments issued by the VIE, liquidity commitments, and explicit and implicit guarantees.On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether we have acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether we have acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which we are involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements.2013 Compared to 2012The following discussion and analysis provide a comparison of our results of operations for 2013&#32;and 2012. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Tables 7&#32;and 8&#32;contain financial data to supplement this discussion.OverviewNet IncomeNet income was $11.4 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to $4.2 billion&#32;in 2012. Including preferred stock dividends, net income applicable to common shareholders was $10.1 billion, or $0.90&#32;per diluted share for 2013 and $2.8 billion, or $0.25&#32;per diluted share for 2012.Net Interest IncomeNet interest income on an FTE basis was $43.1 billion&#32;for 2013, an increase of $1.6 billion compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to reductions in long-term debt balances, higher yields on debt securities including the impact of market-related premium amortization expense, lower rates paid on deposits, higher commercial loan balances and increased trading-related net interest income, partially offset by lower consumer loan balances as well as lower asset yields and the low rate environment. The net interest yield on an FTE basis was 2.37 percent&#32;for 2013, an increase of 13 bps compared to 2012&#32;due to the same factors as described above.Noninterest IncomeNoninterest income was $46.7 billion&#32;in 2013, an increase of $4.0 billion&#32;compared to 2012. Provision for Credit LossesThe provision for credit losses was $3.6 billion&#32;for 2013, a decrease of $4.6 billion&#32;compared to 2012. The provision for credit losses was $4.3 billion lower than net charge-offs for 2013, resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses due to continued improvement in the home loans and credit card portfolios. This compared to a $6.7 billion reduction in the allowance for credit losses in 2012. Net charge-offs totaled $7.9 billion, or 0.87&#32;percent of average loans and leases for 2013&#32;compared to $14.9 billion, or 1.67 percent for 2012. The decrease in net charge-offs was primarily driven by credit quality improvement across all major portfolios. Also, included in 2012 were charge-offs associated with the National Mortgage Settlement and loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy due to the implementation of regulatory guidance. &nbsp;Noninterest ExpenseNoninterest expense was $69.2 billion&#32;for 2013, a decrease of $2.9 billion&#32;compared to 2012. The decrease was primarily driven by a $967 million decline in other general operating expense largely due to a provision of $1.1 billion in 2012 for the 2013 Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) Acceleration Agreement, lower FDIC expense, and lower default-related servicing expenses in Legacy Assets & Servicing and mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays. Partially offsetting these declines was a $1.9 billion increase in litigation expense to $6.1 billion in 2013. Personnel expense decreased $929 million in 2013 as we continued to streamline processes and achieve cost savings. Professional fees decreased $690 million due in part to reduced default-related management activities in Legacy Assets & Servicing.Income Tax ExpenseThe income tax expense was $4.7 billion&#32;on pretax income of $16.2 billion&#32;for 2013&#32;compared to an income tax benefit of $1.1 billion&#32;on the pretax income of $3.1 billion&#32;for 2012. The effective tax rate for 2013 was driven by our recurring tax preference items and by tax benefits related to non-U.S. restructurings. These benefits were partially offset by the $1.1 billion charge to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K deferred tax assets due to the U.K corporate income tax rate reduction in 2013. The negative effective tax rate for 2012 included a $1.7 billion tax benefit attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability. Partially offsetting the benefit was a $788 million charge to reduce the carrying value of certain U.K. deferred tax assets due to the U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction enacted in 2012.Business Segment OperationsConsumer & Business BankingCBB&#32;recorded net income of $6.6 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to $5.6 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;with the increase primarily due to lower provision for credit losses and noninterest expense. Net interest income remained relatively unchanged as the impact of higher deposit balances was offset by the impact of lower average loan balances. Noninterest income of $9.8 billion&#32;remained relatively unchanged as the allocation of certain card revenue to GWIM&#32;for clients with a credit card, and lower deposit service charges were offset by the net impact of consumer protection products primarily due to changes in 2012. The provision for credit losses decreased $1.0 billion&#32;to $3.1 billion&#32;in 2013 primarily as a result of improvements in credit quality. Noninterest expense decreased $661 million&#32;to $16.3 billion&#32;primarily due to lower operating, personnel and FDIC expenses.Consumer Real Estate ServicesCRES recorded a net loss of $5.0 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to a net loss of $6.3 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;with the decrease in the net loss primarily driven by lower provision for credit losses and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by lower mortgage banking income. Mortgage banking income decreased $968 million due to both lower servicing income and lower core production revenue, partially offset by a $3.1 billion decrease in representations and warranties provision as 2012 included provision related to the January 2013&#32;settlement with FNMA. The provision for credit losses improved $1.6 billion&#32;to a benefit of $156 million&#32;due to improved delinquencies, increased home prices and continued loan balance run-off. Noninterest expense decreased $1.2 billion&#32;to $15.8 billion&#32;due to lower operating expenses in Legacy Assets & Servicing, partially offset by higher litigation expense.Global Wealth & Investment ManagementGWIM&#32;recorded net income of $3.0 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to $2.2 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;with the increase driven by higher revenue and lower provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Revenue increased $1.3 billion&#32;primarily driven by higher asset management fees. The provision for credit losses decreased $210 million&#32;to $56 million&#32;driven by continued improvement in the home equity portfolio. Noninterest expense increased $311 million&#32;to $13.0 billion&#32;due to higher volume-driven expenses and higher support costs, partially offset by lower other personnel costs.Global BankingGlobal Banking&#32;recorded net income of $5.0 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to $5.3 billion&#32;in 2012&#32;with the decrease primarily driven by an increase in the provision for credit losses, partially offset by higher revenue. Revenue increased $810 million&#32;to $16.5 billion&#32;in 2013 as higher net interest income due to the impact of loan growth, and higher investment banking fees were partially offset by lower other income due to gains on the liquidation of certain portfolios in 2012. The provision for credit losses increased $1.4 billion&#32;to $1.1 billion&#32;compared to a benefit of $342 million&#32;in &nbsp;2012 primarily due to increased reserves as a result of commercial loan growth. Noninterest expense remained relatively unchanged in 2013 primarily due to lower personnel expense largely offset by higher litigation expense. Global MarketsGlobal Markets&#32;recorded net income of $1.2 billion&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to a net loss of $2.0 billion&#32;in 2012. Excluding net DVA and charges of $1.1 billion related to the U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction in 2013 and $781 million in 2012, net income decreased $548 million to $3.0 billion primarily driven by lower FICC revenue due to a challenging trading environment, and higher noninterest expense, partially offset by an increase in equities revenue. Net DVA losses were $1.2 billion compared to losses of $7.6 billion in 2012. Noninterest expense increased $711 million&#32;to $12.0 billion&#32;due to an increase in litigation expense. Income tax expense for both years included a charge for remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets due to the decreases in the U.K. corporate tax rate.All OtherAll Other&#32;recorded net income of $712 million&#32;in 2013&#32;compared to a net loss of $703 million&#32;in 2012&#32;with the increase driven by improvement in the provision for credit losses, higher equity investment income and lower noninterest expense, partially offset by a lower income tax benefit and lower gains on sales of debt securities. The provision for credit losses improved $3.3 billion&#32;to a benefit of $666 million&#32;in 2013 primarily driven by continued improvement in portfolio trends including increased home prices in the residential mortgage portfolio. Noninterest expense decreased $2.0 billion&#32;to $4.6 billion&#32;primarily due to lower litigation expense. The income tax benefit was $2.0 billion&#32;in 2013 compared to a benefit of $4.2 billion&#32;in 2012. The decrease was driven by the decline in the pretax loss in All Other&#32;and lower tax benefits as 2012 included a $1.7 billion tax benefit attributable to the excess of foreign tax credits recognized in the U.S. upon repatriation of the earnings of certain subsidiaries over the related U.S. tax liability.n/a = not applicablen/m = not meaningfulFor footnotes see page 129.For footnotes see page&#160;131.GlossaryAlt-A Mortgage &#8211; A type of U.S. mortgage that, for various reasons, is considered riskier than A-paper, or &#8220;prime,&#8221; and less risky than &#8220;subprime,&#8221; the riskiest category. Alt-A interest rates, which are determined by credit risk, therefore tend to be between those of prime and subprime home loans. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores and higher LTVs.Assets in Custody &#8211; Consist largely of custodial and non-discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets administered for clients. Trust assets encompass a broad range of asset types including real estate, private company ownership interest, personal property and investments.Assets Under Management (AUM)&#32;&#8211; The total market value of assets under the investment advisory and discretion of GWIM&#32;which generate asset management fees based on a percentage of the assets' market values. AUM reflects assets that are generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate accounts. AUM is classified in two categories, Liquidity AUM and Long-term AUM. Liquidity AUM are assets under advisory and discretion of GWIM&#32;in which the investment strategy seeks to maximize income while maintaining liquidity and capital preservation. The duration of these strategies is primarily less than one year. Long-term AUM are assets under advisory and discretion of GWIM&#32;in which the duration of investment strategy is longer than one year.Carrying Value (with respect to loans)&#32;&#8211; The amount at which a loan is recorded on the balance sheet. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For PCI loans, the carrying value equals fair value upon acquisition adjusted for subsequent cash collections and yield accreted to date. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held-for-sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For loans for which we have elected the fair value option, the carrying value is fair value.Client Brokerage Assets&#32;&#8211; Include client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. This includes non-discretionary brokerage and fee-based assets which generate brokerage income and asset management fee revenue.Committed Credit Exposure&#32;&#8211; Includes any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed conditions.Credit Derivatives &#8211; Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one or more referenced &nbsp;obligations. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection purchaser and protection seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events generally include bankruptcy or insolvency of the referenced credit entity, failure to meet payment obligations when due, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. The purchaser of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of such a credit event. A credit default swap is a type of a credit derivative.Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments. Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the Corporation's own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments and/or structured liabilities.Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA)&#32;&#8211; A portfolio adjustment required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)&#32;&#8211; Commitment with a loan applicant in which the loan terms, including interest rate and price, are guaranteed for a designated period of time subject to credit approval.Letter of Credit&#32;&#8211; A document issued on behalf of a customer to a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the issuer's credit for that of the customer. Loan-to-value (LTV)&#32;&#8211; A commonly used credit quality metric that is reported in terms of ending and average LTV. Ending LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan at the end of the period divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. An additional metric related to LTV is combined loan-to-value (CLTV)&#32;which is similar to the LTV metric, yet combines the outstanding balance on the residential mortgage loan and the outstanding carrying value on the home equity loan or available line of credit, both of which are secured by the same property, divided by the estimated value of the property. A LTV of 100 percent reflects a loan that is currently secured by a property valued at an amount exactly equal to the carrying value or available line of the loan. Estimated property values are generally determined through the use of automated valuation models (AVMs) or the CoreLogic Case-Shiller Index. An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to large volumes of market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the MSA in which the property being valued is located. CoreLogic Case-Shiller is a widely used index based on data from repeat sales of single family homes. CoreLogic Case-Shiller indexed-based values are reported on a three-month or one-quarter lag.Margin Receivable&#32;&#8211;&#32;An extension of credit secured by eligible securities in certain brokerage accounts.Matched Book&#32;&#8211; Repurchase and resale agreements and securities borrowed and loaned transactions entered into to accommodate customers and earn interest rate spreads.Mortgage Servicing Right (MSR) &#8211; The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors.Net Interest Yield&#32;&#8211; Net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets.Nonperforming Loans and Leases&#32;&#8211; Includes loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties (TDRs). Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. Consumer credit card loans, business card loans, consumer loans secured by personal property (except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR), and consumer loans secured by real estate that are insured by the FHA or through long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (fully-insured loan portfolio) are not placed on nonaccrual status and are, therefore, not reported as nonperforming loans and leases.Purchased Credit-impaired (PCI) Loan&#32;&#8211; A loan purchased as an individual loan, in a portfolio of loans or in a business combination with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable, upon acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments. These loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition.Subprime Loans&#32;&#8211; Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors, such as low FICO scores, high debt to income ratios and inferior payment history.&nbsp;Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)&#32;&#8211; Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, loans discharged in bankruptcy or other actions intended to maximize collection. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge from bankruptcy. TDRs are generally reported as nonperforming loans and leases while on nonaccrual status. Nonperforming TDRs may be returned to accrual status when, among other criteria, payment in full of all amounts due under the restructured terms is expected and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months. TDRs that are on accrual status are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the restructuring occurred or the year in which they are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they would be placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs.Value-at-Risk (VaR)&#32;&#8211; VaR is a model that simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios. Acronyms&#32;&nbsp;Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk&#32;See Market Risk Management&#32;on page 99&#32;in the MD&A and the sections referenced therein for Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Corporation's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;&nbsp;based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013). Based on that assessment, management concluded that, as of December&#160;31, 2014, the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting is effective based on the criteria established in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013).The Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2014&#32;has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2014.Brian T. MoynihanChairman, Chief Executive Officer and PresidentBruce R. ThompsonChief Financial OfficerReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmTo the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Bank of America Corporation:In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related Consolidated Statement of Income, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December&#160;31, 2014&#32;in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December&#160;31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control &#8211; Integrated Framework (2013)&#32;issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing &nbsp;and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i)&#160;pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.Charlotte, North CarolinaFebruary&#160;25, 2015Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.Bank of America Corporation and SubsidiariesSee accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.<hr 
